Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of a Lagos State High Court sitting in Ikeja, yesterday sentenced four men to death for kidnapping the traditional ruler of Iba Kingdom, Oba Goriola Oseni. They are to die by hanging, Daily Trust gathered. Duba Furejo, Ododomo Isaiah, Reuben Anthony, and Yerin Fresh, were arraigned before the court on October 24, 2016, by the Director of Public Prosecution, on an eight count charge of conspiracy, murder, attempted murder, armed robbery and kidnapping. The defendants on July 16, 2016, were said to have also murdered a security guard, Sunday Okanlawon, a commercial motorcyclist, Joseph Okeke and also robbed the monarch’s wife of her mobile phone before shooting her several times during the kidnapping. They pleaded not guilty to the offences. However, the prosecution tendered several exhibits to argue their case. The state called seven witnesses to prove their case against the defendants The trial judge said she found all the convicts guilty of the charges against them. Delivering the verdict, the court sentenced the defendants to death for causing the death of Sunday Okanlawon and Joseph Okeke. “I hereby sentence the offenders to life imprisonment for shooting the Olori of Abosede Goriola, conspiracy to murder 10 years, conspiracy to commit kidnap 10 years each’’. For armed robbery, the convicts bagged life imprisonment and 21 years imprisonment for kidnapping. The monarch was abducted and kept in captivity for about three weeks before he regained freedom. Dock worker to die by hanging for beating wife to death Five men bag 27-year jail term Court sentences Togolese cook to life imprisonment for killing employer Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.