Stakeholders and relevant professional bodies should map out strategies on the effective utilisation of geospatial technologies as a tool for sustainable economic development in Nigeria, the deputy Senate leader, Professor Ajayi Boroffice, has said. A statement by Head, Media and Corporate Communications of the National Space and Research Development Agency [NASDRDA], Dr Felix Ale said Prof Boroffice made the call in Abuja at the opening ceremony of the 2019 GEOSON annual conference organized by the Geo-information society of Nigeria with the theme: Smart Spatial Solutions for sustainable development in Africa. The senator said the adoption of smart spatial solution will go a long way to assist in the developmental drive of the country. The national President of the Geo-information society of Nigeria, Dr Matthew Adepoju in his opening remarks identified Geospatial information as the bedrock and major tool for radical transformation in any society. He appealed to practitioners especially those in the field of Geo-spatial technology to work in synergy for the spatial data infrastructure for Nigeria. He promised that under his leadership the Geo-information society of Nigeria will continue to work on the need to have a regulatory framework for Nigeria as well as making the Geo-information policy an act of parliament. The acting Director General of National Space Research and Development Agency, Mr Jonathan Angulu, who emphasized the need for partnership with GEOSON by other relevant organizations said the space agency was established to provide a fulcrum for scientific research using remote sensing data in the country. Nasarawa attends Africa GIS 2013 Digital mapping saves Nigerians N190bn annually - Google Minister calls for ground breaking research to protect environment Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.