The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite, has said the establishment of gemstone laboratories in the country will save the country the cost of outsourcing such services to other countries. Adegbite was speaking when he visited the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) in Abuja on Tuesday and commissioned the Geological Mineral Museum. “I want us to continually improve ourselves. If our equipment are faulty, we want to send them to South Africa. If we want to certify a mineral, we want to go to South Africa. There is no re-inventing the wheels. If they are ahead, we can play the catch-up by learning fast. “What we should be doing is developing our capacity. Let’s develop our gemstones laboratory so nobody has to take any mineral out of this country to certify,” he said. The minister said the newly launched museum of the agency was an asset that contributes to the culture of research, scientific education and public engagement in important ways. The Director-General, NGSA, Engr. Abdulrazaq Garba, said the generation of an interactive map on gemstones would give first-hand information to foreign investors, and that the agency was committed to working with the ministry to achieve greater successes. “In terms of capacity building, we have collaborations with different institutions. We have just completed a training on geological database with the Chinese Geological Survey Agency. So we have been building capacity and will do more,” he said.  Border closure curtails smuggling of gemstone - Minister ‘Dangote’s voyage into coal mining to conserve forex for FG’ Nigeria to help S/Africa develop mining sector Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.