The Centre for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) has commenced an intensive two-week training for staff of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) on Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The Director of the centre, Mallam Yunusa Zakari Yau, yesterday in Abuja, said  the essence of the training was to enhance the ICT skills of AMAC staff to perform their duties effectively and efficiently and serve Abuja citizens professionally. Mallam Yau said CITAD was undertaking the training as part of its civic responsibility and building relationships with governmental institutions. He said, “CITAD is ever ready to increase the number of beneficiaries. With support from Action Aid, we have been able to establish five ICT centres in different area councils; these are facilities that we have created for communities to come together to discuss community problems. “Therefore, this task is a crucial part of our skills that are required in the 21st Century. We do not want anybody to be left behind and we want AMAC to become the centre of ICT drive to provide efficiency in terms of service delivery and productivity in terms of convenience.” On his part,  Joseph Augustine of Action Aid Nigeria (AAN), acknowledged and appreciated the council and all members of staff for embracing the initiative. Augustine said this showed that AMAC was involved in progressive initiative as it was no longer news that ICT was gradually revolutionising the world in business, economic, social arena and even in politics. He said, “ICT is no longer knowledge for luxury, but a necessity to human existence, especially at this particular time that we are in.” The AMAC Chairman, Alhaji Abdulahi Adamu Candido, represented by the council Secretary, Rahmat Abisola Abdullahi, commended the CITAD and assured that the opportunity would be judiciously used by the council workers to serve the people better. Also, the Special Adviser on ICT/Donor Agencies and Civil Societies to the AMAC Chairman, Abiodun Essiet, urged other organisations to emulate CITAD. 