Key stakeholders in the oil and gas industry are worried that despite numerous efforts to reform the sector, not much has been achieved. They said the oil and gas sector in Nigeria has been declining over the years. Oil production has significantly reduced; government-owned refineries operate at a fraction of their capacity while other inefficiencies continue to cripple the sector. As part of ways to find practical solutions to these challenges, critical stakeholders in the oil and gas sector met during the week in Lagos to articulate a set of pragmatic ideas to reform the petroleum industry. The roundtable discussions brought together representatives of organized private sector (Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS), Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG), Nigerian Gas Association (NGA), Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria, among others. The discussions centred on practical steps to minimize discretion in licensing, the implications of changes in fiscals on Nigeria’s petroleum sector following the recent signing into law by the president of the Deep Offshore Act (2019). Also discussed were practical models the government should explore for pipeline construction, security, and management; elements that will ensure improved quality of life in the host communities; practical solutions that can be implemented to fix the challenges in the gas sector and steps to be adopted to improve product availability among other issues. Speaking on the essence of the engagement, Patrick O. Okigbo III, Principal Partner, Nextier, said the idea was to help the Minister and other policy makers to appreciate what really matters to the key industry stakeholders – the core industry challenges, opportunities and options (key policies, capabilities, and structures etc) that are essentially required to ensure the reform of the oil and gas sector. The exercise, he said, is expected to identify how well the new Minister’s agenda is aligned with industry expectations, identify gaps that still need to be addressed by the administration and the next steps that key stakeholders can take to support progress on key policy. He said report of the Lagos session is expected to be submitted to the minister’s office after which a public event to discuss the industry agenda will be held and a report also submitted to the minister’s office for necessary action. FG not serious about passage of PIB – PENGASSAN Oil/gas sector still in turmoil Oil workers give Buhari ultimatum to declare emergency in oil, gas