The suspended chairman of Shinkafi Local Government Area of Zamfara State, Alhaji Sani Muhammad Galadi, has said he is ready to be executed if he is found guilty of diverting N23 million allocated for victims of bandits’ attacks in his local government. Speaking to Daily Trust yesterday, he said he had taken legal action against Zamfara State House of Assembly, the Attorney General and others, adding that if found guilty by the court, he was prepared to face the consequences. “They said I diverted N23 million victims’ support funds but the state assembly never invited me even when they set up a committee to investigate the matter. The committee never called me only for it to submit its report indicting me. “The court would now decide. If I’m found wanting I know I would never go unpunished but if I’m found not guilty of the allegations then I’m claiming N50 million damages against the assembly and other defendants. “I have been in politics for 41 years now. If as a local government chairman money meant for victims of bandits’ attacks in my local government is given to me for onward disbursement to the specified beneficiaries is diverted by me, then there would be no distinction between me and those who killed the innocent people. “I’m inching closer to my grave by the day, therefore what do I stand to benefit from diverting public funds? The allegations are wicked, malicious and politically motivated and they should be dismissed totally,” he said. Last week, Zamfara State assembly slammed a suspension on the local government chairman after its committee found him guilty of diverting N23 million meant for disbursement to victims of armed banditry attacks. Alleged N23m diversion: I'm ready for execution if found guilty – Zamfara LG boss Marafa in Aso Villa: My case on Zamfara APC primaries beyond me Politics is making Zamfara’s health sector sick Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.