Twenty three rescued inmates of the Ibadan Islamic correctional centre at Olore mosque in Ojo, Ibadan, Oyo State, have been admitted at the Adeoyo General State Hospital in Ibadan for better medical treatment. Other 100 inmates have been reunited with their families, Daily Trust gathered. The centre was discovered last week by the state government and inmates were rescued by security personnel. The state governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, later visited the centre and ordered the demolition of the structure. The state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Alhaja Faosat Sanni, told journalists in her office at the weekend that after due profiling of the rescued inmates by the relevant state government agency and security agencies, over 100 hundred rescued inmates were handed over to their relatives with an agreement not to return them to such centres again. Alhaja Faosat urged parents and guardians to always seek government assistance in correcting societal ills rather than subject their children to the care of unregistered correctional centres. “Cases like this and many societal ills are better handled by social workers in the ministry. Parents and guardians should always consult the ministry for correction and rehabilitation of their wards in a better way, rather than subject them to torture,” she added. She stressed that the government has continued to ensure that adequate food, water and conveniences were provided for those rescued from the centres. Four foreigners among 147 rescued from Kaduna rehabilitation home BREAKING: 228 inmates escape as flood sacks Kogi prison The shocking rehab houses of horror Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.