Some key financial institutions, including First Bank, Fidelity, Stanbic IBTC, Jaiz and Unity bank have all indicated interest to participate in the Daily Trust’s Agric Conference and Exhibition slated to hold tomorrow in Lagos. A statement signed by the company’s General Manager, Business and Strategy, Ahmed Shekarau, revealed that the financial institutions have all confirmed their participation at the conference which seeks to  tackle critical issues along the rice, sugar and dairy value chains. The Daily Trust Agric Conference and Exhibition, in its third edition, with the theme, “Repositioning Rice, Sugar and Dairy Production for Optimal Yield,” will hold on Tuesday, November 26, 2019, at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. The Statement disclosed that the event, which would be declared open by the Minister of Agricultural and Natural Resources, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, will also be attended by the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) Plc and the Bank of Agriculture (BOA). The conference and exhibition are “aimed at tackling critical issues along the rice, sugar and dairy value chains, with the view of increasing output,” the statement stated. It said further that renowned businessman, Mr. Emmanuel Ijewere, who is a Co-chairman of the Nigeria Agribusiness Group (NABG), is expected to chair the event at which critical stakeholders like the Executive Secretary/CEO of the National Sugar Development Council (NSDC), Dr. Latif Busari and the Executive Director/CEO, National Animal Production Research Institute (NAPRI), Zaria, Prof. C.A.M Lokpini would examine issues that are vital to the growth of the value chains highlighted. Other stakeholders in the agricultural sector that are expected at the event, according to the statement, include agricultural development institutions, the National Quarantine Service (NAQS), agricultural research councils, and agricultural research institutes. Also expected at the event, according to the statement, are agro-allied industries such as the projects section of the Dangote Group, the Honeywell Group, Wamco, Olam Group, L & Z Integrated Dairy Farms Limited, Umza Rice Mill Limited, and Labana Rice Group Limited. The statement also disclosed that Notore Chemical Industries Nigeria has also confirmed its participation, adding that “various farmers, rice millers, and paddy rice dealers’ associations are also participating in the two-day conference and exhibition”.