Jothan Amos is Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State. In this interview, he spoke on how his party won the November 16 governorship election in the state, the agenda of the governor-elect, David Lyon, for the state and other burning political issues.  Bayelsa is regarded as a no-go area for APC until the defeat of PDP in the November 16 governorship election. How did your party achieve that victory? Well, Bayelsa State was dominated by PDP and the people of Bayelsa State made up the PDP domination, and they have been desiring good things to come to the state through PDP governance in terms of development, but nothing was done in that regard. But the very people that were making PDP dominance have turned their back against the restoration government of PDP under the leadership of Governor Henry Seriake Dickson. I was not surprised seeing the people voting massively for the APC during the just concluded governorship election because the people are yearning for development all these years. For 20 years, the people of Bayelsa were under bondage brought to them by PDP, and now the people have changed the narrative, that is why you see people voting en masse for APC, because they  know that APC has the national connect and  national connect means development. Looking at the state House of Assembly, for now it is dominated by PDP, do you think the governor-elect, David Lyon, will be able to work in such a situation? The incoming governor in person of Hon. David Lyon is an amiable person, and there is no body he cannot work with in any situation. What is paramount here is the collective good of all Bayelsans and the assembly members are also Bayelsans despite the party they belong. They prefer good thing to come to the state, and they will definitely support the governor to succeed.  Election is over, David Lyon will be governor for all, no matter the party affiliation, he can be alone in APC and work with a house of assembly dominated by PDP members. David Lyon is known for development, and there is no cause for alarm. APC is prepared to build the Bayelsa of our dream, he will have a very good working relationship with the House of Assembly members, because even they themselves are yearning for development, but the leadership of PDP under Governor Dickson had been short-changing and oppressing them. Come February 14, 2020, APC will become the ruling party in Bayelsa State for the first time. As the state party chairman, how do you intend to ensure your party’s performance satisfied the people and carried everybody along? The victory of APC in Bayelsa State is a victory for all Bayelsans, it’s a victory for everybody in the villages and it’s the victory for all Ijaws. Under APC government, there will be nothing like core and non-core Ijaws, as introduced by PDP government – Bayelsa is one and will remain so. When the government does what it is expected of it by the people, everybody will feel the impact of government, when there are industries, adequate power supply, stable electricity, affordable education for Bayelsans, human empowerment, good road networks, job creation, etc, certainly everybody will benefit from it and by that they will be carried along. APC as a party and David Lyon as a person have made these things the prime focus. Lyon, Diri set to clash in Bayelsa gov’ship contest Jonathan absent as PDP holds mega rally for Bayelsa gov’ship poll Jonathan's kinsmen in Bayelsa dump PDP for APC