The lingering crisis in the Lagos State chapter of the PDP has resurfaced, following a move by a faction to hold an election today (Wednesday). However, the party under the leadership of Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the party, has obtained a court order restraining aggrieved members from carrying out the election. Justice T. A. O. Oyekan-Abdullahi of the Lagos High Court ordered that the status quo should remain in the affairs of the PDP in Lagos State. This followed a suit filed against proposed special election for state executive positions of the party in the state. Ruling yesterday in a suit no LD/3600GCM/19 that has the party’s state chairman, Dr. Dominic Adegbola and seven others as claimants, the presiding judge said, “The election planned for the 13th November, 2019, has no input of the State Executives nor is it in compliance with the party constitution. “That this court shall halt in making any order other than the fact that, parties shall keep peace and maintain status quo.” The suit has the PDP, Senator Ben Obi, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and four others as defendants. Hearing and arguments for the case have been fixed for November 18, 2019. Speaking in Lagos, chieftains of the party in the state, including a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT), Dr. Akinremi Akitoye; former Deputy Governor Kofo Bucknor-Akerele, Adegbola, among others hailed the ruling. They also affirmed Chief George as the leader of the party in the state.  Still the centre can’t hold in Ogun PDP Courts stop   PDP congresses in Lagos, Nasarawa     We’ll go ahead with congress – PDP PDP Crises: Sambo’s desperate trouble-shooting Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.