The Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat  of  the FCT Administration has emphasised the need for livestock farmers involved in dairy production in the territory to adopt safe and hygienic production practices. The secretariat gave the advice at a capacity building workshop of livestock farmers on modern pasteurizing techniques held at the secretariat during the weekend. Declaring the workshop open, the Director, Administration and Finance of the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mr. Ibe Prospect Chukwemeka expressed the concern of the FCT Administration on increased cases of diseases associated with unhygienic processing methods in milk and dairy production. According to him, the objective of the workshop is to avail participants with useful information that will help to increase output in terms of quantity and quality in line with global standards. “As a government, we have the obligation of promoting public health safety of residents. Poor handling practices can result in the contamination of your products as well as the spread of water borne diseases such as cholera, worm infestation,” he said. Mr. Ibe further advised participants to ensure that their animals receive medical attention from qualified medical practitioners to vaccinate them to eliminate the risk of infection. Earlier in her welcome address, Mr. Edith Onyeji, who represented the Director, Animal Husbandry in the Agric Secretariat, Hajiya Ummah Abubakar, lamented the increasing decline in the market competitiveness of locally produced dairy products compared to the foreign products as a result of the poor quality of the products.   FCTA sympathises with poultry farmers Commercial agric loan to attract 7.5% interest in FCT FCT trains 240 livestock farmers on  milk hygiene Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!