Tarok communities in Plateau state have asked security agents to release a factional leader in a communal crisis that engulfed Tarok communities in Plateau and Taraba states which led to loss of lives and properties. The Tarok people are predominantly found in Langtang North, Langtang South and parts of Wase local government areas of Plateau state. The ethnic tribe in Kadarko, Wase LGA have been engulfed in an intra-ethnic crisis with their brethrens in Zurmi, Taraba state in the last few months. However, the Ngwang Ishi O’Tarok, the umbrella body of the Tarok people in a statement signed by its President, David Dashe, noted that the arrest of Shehu Jatau, the Tarok community leader in Zurmi, Taraba state and his supporters at a peace meeting could escalate tension in the affected communities. Dashe accused security agents of making the arrest despite assuring monarchs involved in the peace process that they would not disrupt their intervention. Daily Trust reports that through the Plateau State Government, a committee made up of the Long Goemai of Shendam, the Emir of Wase, the Ponzhi Zinni and the Director General of the Plateau Peace Building Agency had been set up to broker peace between the two warring leaders. But Dashe explained that shortly after a peace meeting at the Plateau Liaison office in Abuja two weeks ago, security agents suspected to be men of Operation Safe Haven trailed and arrested Shehu Jatau and his supporters. The group stated that while it cannot question the role of security agents in performing their lawful duty, they were however concerned that the timing of the arrest had inserted a worrying dimension to the peace effort. However, OPSH through its Media and Information Officer, Major Shittu Abiodun said the arrest was not carried out by men of OPSH. Bokkos crisis: How we escaped to Tafa, by herders - Fulani man says he left behind 500 cows Plateau’s circle of ‘endless’ violence Land grabbing major reasons for crisis in Wase — Emir Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.