President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan has congratulated the governors-elect of Bayelsa and Kogi states, David Lyon and Yahaya Bello, respectively. Lawan, in a statement by his spokesman, Ola Awoniyi, rejoiced with Bello on his reelection and Lyon for making history as the first governor Bayelsa has elected on a platform different from the outgoing ruling party in the state. The Senate president enjoined the winners to be magnanimous in victory by accommodating all sections of the state in their governments and development agenda. Lawan also admonished the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, to learn from the challenges experienced in the two states with a view to constantly improving its institutional performance and the electoral process. Also, Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, have congratulated Bello and Lyon, on their victory in the election held on Saturday. The duo sent their congratulatory messages in separate statements on Monday. The Speaker in a congratulatory message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said the victories recorded by the APC candidates were an indication of the wide acceptance the party enjoys in the two states. “It is gladdening to know that our party, the APC, came out victorious in the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. This is a testimony that Nigerians across the length and breadth of the country are beginning to realise what the APC means for the country. “This victory is not for the party or its members alone, but for the entirety of Nigerians,” he said. Similarly, Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State has described the victory of APC in the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states as a sign of confidence by the people of the two states. Lalong who is the Chairman, Northern Governor’s Forum, in a congratulatory message described the victory of Lyon as a demonstration of the people’s confidence in his ability to deliver change to the people of the state in line with the vision of the APC. In a statement issued by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, the governor also described the re-election of  Bello as yet another sign of confidence by the people of Kogi State and an opportunity to work harder in taking the state to the next level. For their parts, the governors of the ruling APC have congratulated Lyon and Bello on their victories at last Saturday’s governorship polls. The governors, in two separate letters addressed to the duo by the Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, rejoiced with party members over the victories and expressed readiness to work with them in order to achieve rapid development and governance reforms in their states. Also, Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu has congratulated Bello and Lyon on their victory at the polls. The Chief Whip of the Senate and former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Kalu, has also rejoiced with Lyon and Bello over their victory at the polls. Bayelsa election: Omo-Agege congratulates David Lyon Lyon, Diri set to clash in Bayelsa gov’ship contest Atiku heads to S/Court as  Buhari wins at tribunal Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!