A socio-political group, Kogi Liberation Front (KLF), has said that a lot of information regarding the processes and procedures for the coming governorship poll in Kogi State was still shrouded in secrecy. The group, in a statement issued yesterday, charged the INEC not to frustrate the credibility, openness and fairness of the election through its alleged “conspiracy of silence on critical issues such as the mode of transmission of election results and the implications of the recent Supreme Court judgment on its insistence on using card readers in the election”. It added that the operational procedures to be employed for collation of results from the polling units to the wards, local governments and state levels had also not been released, wondering how INEC could be silent on such key issues. A statement signed by the coordinator and secretary of the group, Mr Andrew Ichala and Comrade Agude Ameh, respectively, said it was dangerous that INEC had not told the world how results would be transmitted going by its position during the last presidential election petition tribunal matter by Atiku Abubakar against President Muhammadu Buhari. The group added that the silence of the electoral commission on the modality for voting – whether it was going to be the 2019 model of simultaneous accreditation and voting or otherwise – was worrisome. “INEC has come out to tell us that it would use card readers in the Kogi and Bayelsa elections, but it is frustrating that many critical questions have been left unanswered. “For instance, what is the importance of the card readers to the elections when they are not legally recognised as declared by the judgement? How will the commission collate results? Is it manually or electronically going by the revelation that it does not have a server?,” part of the statement read. Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.