Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has urged the newly inaugurated commissioners to run their ministries in a civilised manner with a view to moving the state to greater heights. Speaking at the swearing-in ceremony of the 20 newly appointed commissioners, Ganduje charged them to be focused, creative, honest and committed in handling their respective ministries. Ganduje said, “The people of Kano have high expectation on you, therefore, we expect you to be honest, creative and committed to your responsibilities. And we expect you to do your best to move Kano to the next level. “You should be highly organised, creative in order to contribute your quota to the economic development of Kano. You are expected to work as team with your permanent secretaries and directors for effective implementation of our programmes. You are expected to respect your respective offices and always work closely with members of the public.” The newly inaugurated commissioners and their portfolios; the Deputy Governor (Agriculture), Malam Muhammad Garba (Information), Alhaji Murtala Sule Garo (Local Government), Dr Kabir Ibrahim Getso (Environment) and Alhaji Mukhtar Ishaq Yakasai (Special Duties), Muhammad Tahar Adamu (Religious Affairs), Alhaji Musa Iliyasu Kwankwaso (Rural & Community Development), Barrister Ibrahim Mukhtar (Justice) and Alhaji Shehu Na’Allah Kura (Finance & Economic Development). Others are Alhaji Sadiq Aminu Wali (Water Resources), Alhaji Nura muhammad Dankadai (Budget & Planning), Dr Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa (Health), Alhaji Muhammad Baffa Takai (Science, Technology and Innovation), Muhammad Sanusi Kiru (Education), Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed Karaye (Tourism & Culture), Alhaji Kabiru Ado Lakwaya (Youth & Sports), Dr Zahra’u Muhammad Umar (Women Affairs & Social Development), Alhaji Mahmud Baffa Dansantsi (Power and Industries), Barrister Lawan Abdullahi Musa (Housing & Transport), Engineer Mu’azu Magaji (Works & Infrastructure) and Dr Mariya Mahmud Bunkure (Higher Education) Ganduje sacks 5 commissioners Ganduje drops five commissioners, swears-in six Ganduje swears in 4 new commissioners Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.