The Nigerian Army 4 Brigade in Benin says it will commence a field Training Exercise, nicknamed “Exercise CROCODILE SMILE IV“ in Edo from Nov 8.to Dec 24. Maj. Ojo Adenegan, Assistant Director Army and the Brigade’s Public Relations Officer, disclosed this in a statement he signed and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Benin on Wednesday. Adenegan said that the exercise was in accordance with the Nigerian Army Forecast of Event 2019 and part of the Nigerian Army’s constitutional role of acting in aid to civil authority in combating the various security threats in the state. He also said that during the period of the exercise, mass movement of troops, military weapons and equipment would be noticed in both interland and waterways in the state and its environs. “The exercise will be conducted in conjunction with other security agencies to further sustain the existing synergy between the Nigerian Army and other security agencies in the state. “The objective of the exercise is to combat and reduce to the barest minimum the prevailing security challenges in the state,“ he said. The major, who identified the challenges as kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, pipeline vandalism and other sundry crimes, said the exercise was to enhance the security of lives and property. He further said that for information sharing and quick response to distress calls, members of the public should contact the Brigade Headquarters’ Number 08078836282 and Nigerian Army Call Centre Number (193). “We are also using this medium to advise the general public in the state and its environs not to panic but go about their legitimate businesses without fear throughout the period of the exercise. “The exercise will be conducted in line with the Nigerian Army Rules of engagement and Code of Conducts, guiding exercise of this nature.” (NAN) Niger Delta: Army deploys troops for operation crocodile smile Nigerian Army to commence exercises Ayem Akpatuma II, Egwu Eke IV, Crocodile Smile IV Operations Crocodile Smile II successful – Buratai Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.