A student of the Lagos State University (LASU), Shittu Saheed, and five other suspected members of the Aiye confraternity were yesterday arraigned for armed robbery and alleged shooting of one Oke Oscar. Other students charged with Saheed, 25, before an Ikeja, Lagos, Special Offences Court are Victor Otobo, 28, a marine agent; Suleiman Musa, 34, a music producer; Ibrahim Kolade, 33, a baker; Ayinla Muiz, 30, unemployed; and Lateef Alowonle, 21, a carpenter. The six accused persons were docked on an 11- count charge bordering on conspiracy to commit robbery, armed robbery, attempted murder and causing of grievous harm. According to the prosecutor, Mr Olakunle Ligali, the six men committed the offences at different times and locations within the pipeline area of Okokomaiko, Lagos. Ligali said the defendants committed the offences on September 14, 2018 at about 2.40pm within the LASU premises, and also on October 2 and 4, 2018 at about 9pm on Apeke Street, Pipeline, Okokomaiko. According to the charge sheet, “Otobo, Saheed, Musa, Kolade and Muiz, on October 2, 2018 at about 9pm at Ahiawu Apeke Street, Pipeline, Okokomaiko, caused grievous harm on Oscar by shooting him in the penis with a locally made cut- to-size pistol. “Also, the five defendants, at the same date and place, while armed, robbed one Isiaka Adeshina of the sum of N25,000 and also caused him grievous harm by shooting him in the left armpit with a locally made cut-to-size pistol. “The five defendants, also at the same date and place, attempted to kill one Chinedu Onwuka by shooting him on the back with a pistol. “Kolade and Alowonle did rob one Itohan Omorodion, a female, of her phone valued at N40,000 within the LASU premises on September 24, 2018.” The six defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to all the offences. Justice Josephine Taiwo adjourned the matter till December 18, 2019 for trial. How we were robbed, raped by fellow student, women in niqab tell court ‘How we were robbed, raped by fellow student’ Poly students, others paraded for robbery, others Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.