Former chairman of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Sani Dauda, popularly known as ASD and two others, have been arrested for allegedly giving out his daughter in marriage. Our correspondent learnt that the arrest may have been at the instance of Nasiba’s (the daughter’s) estranged husband. The two others arrested are the judge of Magajingari Sharia Court in Kaduna North Local Government Area, Murtala Nasir, who consummated the marriage held on Saturday, November 9, 2019 and Shehu Dauda, one of Dauda’s sons. They were arrested on Monday and are being detained at the Special Anti Robbery Squad office of the Kaduna state police command. Lawyer to the accused persons, Sani Katu, alleged yesterday that his clients’ arrest was instigated by Nasiba’s ex-husband, Abubakar Musa Abubakar. The spokesman of the state police command, DSP Yakubu Sabo, when contacted, said he was not aware of the development, but promised to find out if such a thing had happened. Speaking through his lawyer, Rilwan Umar, Abubakar, said the marriage between him and Nasiba was not dissolved. He said: “I participated in this case from the Upper Sharia Court, Tudun Wada, to the Sharia Court of Appeal, the FCT High Court and to Area Court in Abuja. “The lower Sharia  Court dissolved the marriage but the Upper Sharia Court Tudun Wada set aside that judgement and Nasiba appealed against that judgment to Sharia Court of Appeal that is pending and yet to be determined.” Kaduna: ASD, 2 others arrested for giving out daughter in marriage SSS arrests 18 kidnappers, Boko Haram cell leader Police arrests 28 ‘Kalare thugs’ over rape, robbery in Gombe Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.