Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara has fired back at his predecessor, Abdulaziz Yari, saying that the former governor recruited 8,000 Yan Sakai and purchased arms for them, thereby compounding the security situation in the state. At a press conference yesterday, the Director General, Press Affairs, Yusuf  Idris, who spoke on behalf of the governor,  said the recent attacks, like in the past, are being caused by members of the outlawed local vigilante group known as Yan Sakai which  ‘‘the former governor recruited, funded and armed’’. The All Progressives Congress had on Saturday through the secretary of its publicity committee, Alhaji Ibrahim Dan Maliki Gidan Goga, who also spoke on behalf of ex governor Yari, accused Governor Bello Matawalle of deceiving the people of the state, saying that banditry is very much alive in Zamfara. He then advised Governor Mutawalle ‘’to go back to the drawing board’’. But speaking yesterday, the governor said, ‘‘don’t forget the crisis in 2013, when Yari, then as governor, purchased firearms for the outlawed Yan Sakai group, one will wonder where those weapons are now. It was the same Abdulaziz Yari that recruited 8,000 Yan Sakai from across the state and it has been confirmed by security agencies that the renewed attacks are being orchestrated by those Yan Sakai. “It would be recalled that when former governor Yari was in charge and there was an attack in Yargaladima village of Maru Local Government Area, where hundreds were massacred, he only visited the village briefly from where he moved straight out of the country”. “Similarly, then governor Yari had to be virtually forced by his colleagues to come to the state when over 100 innocent souls were killed in Birane village of Zurmi Local Government. Yet he left the same day for Daura in Katsina State, in company of his fellow governors, likewise in Kizara, the list is long, but in all, the then governor did not have much time for his people,” he said. Speaking on the former IGP M D Abubakar- led committee, set up to find lasting solution to the banditry activities in the state, Governor Matawalle said the committee invited some former governors, deputies and other leaders to come and make inputs. “But for mere political anger, nonchalant attitude and lack of concern, ex-governor Yari refused to even acknowledge the invitation.” Matawalle fires back at Yari, says ex-governor recruited, purchased arms for 8,000 Yan Sakai Zamfara Assembly repeals law backing jumbo allowances for Yari, ex-governors, deputies, others Fresh attacks raise fears of renewed killings in Zamfara