The chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria chapter yesterday said rejection of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) by the union is aimed at saving the university system from collapse. Professor Rabi’u Nasiru, the chairman of ABU-ASUU, in an interview with Daily Trust, said the attempt by the federal government to force members of the union to enrol in the scheme is illegal. He said IPPIS undermines the autonomy of universities, ‘‘which is a legal issue that the government needs to address before talking of enrolling ASUU members in the scheme’’. When asked whether the union is only trying to protect some vested interests that may be exposed by the enrolment of lecturers in the IPPIS, Professor Nasiru said ASUU’s position was informed by patriotism. He added: “Between the federal government and ASUU, who has more skeletons in the cupboard? They said they have saved N247 billion, where is the money? Who made the infraction that resulted to that? Where are they? Have they been prosecuted? “ASUU is only fighting for the survival of the university system. If people would brand us as corrupt because of doing that, so be it. This government has compromised most of the state institutions, including the judiciary and they want to do the same to ASUU.” On the issue of visitation by lecturers, Professor Nasiru said it is a global practice, which has been in Nigeria for a long time. He said: “Visiting lecturing has been there. There are rules guiding that. If some people are breaking these laws, people should fish them out, particularly the universities concerned. Lecturers are allowed to visit two places. This was necessitated by the proliferation of universities in Nigeria. “Politicians have politicized the creation of universities. Some state governments that cannot even pay the salaries of their workers are establishing universities. They don’t care about quality. ASUU doesn’t control fund. We are just workers; where we work and get paid. If not for ASUU, Nigerian universities would have become like our public secondary schools. This is what we are working hard to avoid and we don’t owe anybody any apology.” Professor Nasiru noted that all members of the union in ABU have received their October 2019 salary, adding that he doesn’t have information on why the federal government decided to soft-pedal. Our position on IPPIS to save public varsities from collapse — ASUU ASUU, FG on  fresh collision course ASUU directs its members to ignore 2019 Personnel Data Verification Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.