Residents of a border community in Katsina state are groaning over the unavailability of Petroleum Motor Spirit (petrol) in their domains, which they said is causing untold hardship to them. Arewa Trust reports that the Nigeria Customs last week stopped the sale of petroleum products at filling stations that are 20 kilometres to the border with neigbouring countries. Residents of Magama, Jibia local government area, which is few kilometres to Niger Republic, said all the stations in the town are under lock and key following the directive. However, it was observed that some people are cashing in on the situation selling a litre for as much as N400 instead of the official price of N145. Residents told Arewa Trust that the situation was getting worse by the day and affecting their social and economic activities. Mohammed Zubairu said: “We drive 47 kilometres to Katsina town to buy petrol  and those who cannot do that have to resort to buying the costly one here. “The petrol station, immediately after hearing the announcement, shut down and  now sells at odd hours at N250 per litre,” he said Umar Aliyu, a commercial motorcyclist, said the scarcity was adversely affecting their business as they would have to go to Katsina to buy the product. A commercial bus driver, Hassan Musa, said he was forced to increase fares, which is affecting patronage as some people have now restricted their movement to only attending important functions. Irrigation farmers, who use petrol to power their pumping machines, also complained that the ban was threatening dry season farming in the area. However, a resident, Saad Mohamed, called for the understanding of his fellow compatriots saying the decision was in the best interest of the country. “I can tell you from Cotonou (in Benin Republic) passing through  settlements in Niger Republic there is no where you buy fuel at filling station.  It is all sold by the road side. And all this is smuggled from Nigeria.’’ He, however, called on the government to strengthen its monitoring mechanism in order to plug all points where the commodity is being smuggled out of the country. “Government should also arrest and sack any official who allows these products to be smuggled out to serve as deterrent to others. This will stop the smuggling” he added.  Why Customs bans fuel supply to border communities Prices of food items, others rise as borders remain shut Fuel scarcity bites harder in Abuja, spreads to states Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.