As the 10-day Lagos International Trade Fair ended yesterday, the President of the State Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to hasten the relocation of the trade fair to a permanent facility. At the closing ceremony of the 33rd edition of the Lagos International Trade Fair, Ruwase lamented that exhibitors and the chamber are faced annually with the challenge of construction of many temporary structures, rental of tents and other facilities for the fair. He said, “Most of these structures would be demolished or removed immediately after the fair and this requires a lot of resources. We have to provide virtually all the facilities from generators to mobile toilets. We seek your intervention in this respect.” He announced that the 2020 Lagos International Trade Fair will hold from November 6 to15, 2020. Earlier at the Lagos State Special Day at the Trade Fair, Ruwase drew the attention of policy makers and economic managers to the need to restructure and diversify the productive base of the economy to critical non-oil sectors like agriculture and manufacturing. He said the Chamber remains resolute in promoting value addition in the non-oil sector in a bid to enhance industrialization and fast-track the pace of economic growth. “Lagos State, which is Nigeria’s commercial capital, would be the 5th biggest economy in Africa, if it were a country. Lagos State alone accounts for almost a third of Nigeria’s aggregate internally generated revenue (IGR). The state takes the front seat as the most attractive investment destination in Nigeria,” Ruwase noted.  Sanwo-Olu to relocate Lagos trade fair to permanent site LCCI seeks Lagos intervention for permanent site Lagos looks forward to global competition in its fair Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.