The presidency has confirmed report that some political appointees of the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, were fired. Daily Trust Online had exclusively obtained names and portfolios of some of the aides of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who were sacked by President Muhammadu Buhari. READ: EXCLUSIVE: Names of Osinbajo’s aides fired by Buhari Mr Graba Shehu, the official spokesperson to President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, in a series of tweets confirmed the report. “The Presidency wishes to confirm that there is, on-going, an unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government, arising from which a number of political appointments have either been revoked or not renewed in the Second Term. “The exercise, which has been ordered by the President, is to streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration. It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce which acts as a drag on efficiency. “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the Second Term. “The office of the Vice President, His Excellency Yemi Osinbajo has, in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these exercises, the overriding objective is to save taxpayer money and deliver needed service to the public. As far as the President is concerned, there is no scope for an excuse for administration after getting a huge mandate to run the country for four more years, ” he said. The presidency also faulted reports that there is a rift between the president and his deputy. “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation. “The media reports of a soured relationship are originating from the minds and mouths of mischief makers, who are desperate for entertaining stories from the Aso Rock Villa with which to titillate the public. “This ulterior motive is the basis of the wrong interpretation given to the recent exercise in the Presidency. “There has been a streamlining of staff going on for a while. The President has always had fewer staff than the Vice President, and there were always plans to reduce the number of staff at the Villa. “The streamlining was not personal or targeted to undermine the Vice President’s office, as the so-called insider sources quoted by the media appear to make it seem. “The President is in absolute control of his government. The media should stop attributing non-existent powers to some people. There cannot be anyone too powerful for President Buhari to control,” Garba Shehu added. This is coming few hours after the spokesman to VP Osinbajo, Laolu Akande made attempts to debunk the report. He had tweeted, “The needless scuffle btw (between) a villa accredited photographer, Mr. Adeshida & one of our security aides earlier today has since been resolved. Incident is regretted & I have apologized to him for any embarrassment caused. Also, a list circulating in the media on d (the) so-called sacked presidential aides is not genuine and ought to be ignored” Daily Trust Online had maintained that it stands by its story.    How Presidency can resolve rift with Parliament - Shehu Sani Jonathan running incompetent presidency – APC BREAKING: Senate presidency: Goje withdraws from race Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.