A former President Goodluck Jonathan was consciously absent during the mega rally of the PDP for the November 16 governorship poll in the state. The national leadership of PDP, Governors and national lawmakers who are members of the PDP stormed Yenagoa to campaign for its governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri. Also absent was Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers states. Speaking at the event, the National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Uche Secondus warned security agencies in the state not to allow themselves to be used by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to rig the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa. According to the PDP leaders, it’s only a tested, articulate and experienced public servant in the mould of Senator Douye Diri, the candidate of the PDP would continue with the exemplary developmental exploits of the Governor Seriake Dickson led administration. They told Bayelsans to reject the opposition APC  to prevent the legacies of the PDP administration of Dickson from being destroyed by the APC and its candidate, Chief David Lyon who they said lacked the requisite capacity to govern Bayelsa. Secondus, while addressing the crowd of supporters at the mega rally on yesterday, said that it was rather unfortunate that the APC presented an unelectable candidate lacking in capacity to represent himself, Bayelsa and Ijaw people for the governorship of the state. Secondus said that the APC and its leaders should tender an open apology to the People of Bayelsa and Nigerians for presenting such a candidate as David Lyon to Bayelsa for the position of governor. Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, said the PDP is the only platform that has given Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation a voice and brought a lot of fortunes to the people. Bayelsa Guber: Can Jonathan’s support for Diri tip the scales? JUST IN: Jonathan, Wike absent from PDP Mega rally in Bayelsa Jonathan's kinsmen in Bayelsa dump PDP for APC Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.