Kano state government alongside the state’s business community have received a high level delegation from Shandong Province, Peoples’ Republic of China, to discuss investment partnership. This followed an earlier visit led by the state’s Deputy Governor, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, when he signed an MOU on behalf of the Kano State Government with the Shandong Province on mutual investment relationship. Speaking at the meeting held at Afficent Event Centre, Kano, the state governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, restated the commitment of his administration to partner with People’s Republic of China in boosting commercial activities in the state. Ganduje, represented by his Deputy, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, said considering the vast commercial opportunities and endowments which the state is blessed with, government would not hesitate on its effort to encourage investors to come and invest. “We have many areas of investment opportunities that our investors can properly harness for mutual investment benefits which include leather industry, textile industry, Agro Allied industry and solid minerals, among others,” he explained. He added that in trying to actualize the relationship between Shandong Province and the state’s investors, his administration would continue to lend its support and encouragement to see that its dream on investment comes to reality. In his speech, the leader of the Chinese delegation, who is also the President of Shandong Provincial Committee, Mr Fu Zhifang, expressed appreciation to the people of Kano for the great hospitality accorded to them during the visit. “We have been to some historical sites of the ancient city of Kano and some commercials centers, from what we have seen, there are a lot of endowments on investments which will soon be established between the sister States,” he said.  Results snatching: Police clear dep gov, detain commissioner, council chair Former speaker Ibrahim Buhari loses father Ganduje picks Gawuna as deputy Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.