The APC governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, has promised to protect lives and property and attract investors to the state to foster economic progress. Speaking yesterday at a rally held at the King Koko Square in Ogbolomabiri, Nembe LGA of the state, Lyon also promised to create jobs for the many unemployed youths of the state. He urged the people of the area not to succumb to the alleged ungodly attempt by the incumbent PDP government to buy their votes, saying no civilized society folds its arms and watch its government use money meant to develop the people to buy votes during election. He said the PDP, having known that it had lost the trust and support of Nembe people resorted to falsely accusing the people of the area of chasing away their own brothers and sisters. He insisted that based on what he had seen during the campaign, Nembe is at peace contrary to the many lies the PDP was trying to spread against the people. During an interaction with Opu Nembe Council of Chiefs at Bassambiri community, Lyon thanked the people for the overwhelming support they gave the APC during the last presidential, national and state assembly elections in spite of intimidation from the PDP state government. He said because the people had suffered from total neglect by government as a result of their support for the APC, he would ensure that the swampy areas of Bassambiri  were sand-filled in order to create room for further expansion of the city. Lyon, Diri set to clash in Bayelsa gov’ship contest Guber elections: Anxiety in Kogi, Bayelsa over looming violence Jonathan's kinsmen in Bayelsa dump PDP for APC Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.