An Abuja-based non-governmental organization, Choice Steps Empowerment Initiative, has trained 150 students from selected schools in the Federal Capital Territory on mental health and stress management. The event, which was tagged MIND RESET, had professional psychologists who aimed at shaping the students so that they can know how to manage mental health and stress. The founder of the initiative, Mrs Kayo Matilukuro, said the programme was set up to “curb suicide amongst teens and young adults. She said the students are expected to transfer the knowledge they have acquired to other students in various schools The banker turned educator said her organization has the vision of building balanced adults from today’s teenagers by educating, counseling and mentoring them on life issues. She further stated that the suicide epidemic that has recently plagued this country led her to organize the event. “We are greatly saddened by the suicide epidemic that has recently plagued this county. “According to World Health Organisation, the rate of depression between the ages of 12 years and 20 years has been on consistent increase and Nigeria ranks number five in the world already. “This has become an issue of concern, especially as depression is undermined until it becomes serious. This widespread negligence is what has culminated into this recent suicide epidemic. “With this in mind, we embarked on this project to help teenagers and young adults to reposition their minds, manage expected and unexpected stress and ultimately develop balanced and healthy minds,” she said.  Cases of drug, sexual abuses on increase in schools –Expert Students top list as 42 Nigerians commit suicide in 6 months NOA, NGOs take mental health awareness campaign to schools Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!