Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Kogi, suspected political thugs have razed the state secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Lokoja, the state capital. The secretariat, situated at Paparanda Square in the heart of Lokoja, was burnt down in the early hours of yesterday. Daily Trust learnt that the secretariat was earlier attacked on Sunday and in the process, windows, doors of the building as well as campaign materials were destroyed. The state chairman of the party, Mouktar Atima, while confirming the incident, accused the ruling APC of “releasing their boys to unleash terror on our party “ Atima said the development was a confirmation of the several threats received  recently by the party’s candidate, Natasha Akpoti. He said no amount of  harassment and destruction will deter the party and its governorship candidate from contesting and winning the Saturday election. He appealed to party faithful not to be discouraged by the recent development. In his reaction, however, the spokesman of the APC campaign council, Kingsley Fanwo, debunked the allegation that his party sponsored hoodlums that burnt down SDP secretariat. He said the party and its candidate are currently busy campaigning round the state and “have no time for irrelevant issues.’’ When contacted, the state police commissioner, Hakeem Busari, confirmed the incident, saying investigation had commenced to unravel those behind the incident. He vowed that perpetrators would be brought to book. Thugs raze SDP secretariat in Kogi SDP gets candidate for Kogi gov’ship Falae in Kogi as Lokoja/Kogi House of Reps by-election holds tomorrow Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.