The House of Representatives will investigate the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, (PPPRA) over the disparity in prices of petroleum pump prices among marketers. The House adopted and passed its resolution on a motion presented at the plenary on Wednesday by Odebunmi Olusegun Dokun (APC, Oyo) and Abubakar Hassan Fulata. The motion was titled: “Need to Check the Discriminatory Practices of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency against the Independent Petroleum Marketers on the Sale of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS).” The motion reads in parts: “The House notes that the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited is a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation saddled with the responsibility of coordinating the distribution of petroleum products in the downstream sector of Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry. “Disturbed that the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited, being the coordinator of petroleum products distribution in the downstream sector, is selling the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) to the two blocks at different prices, selling the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) to Major Marketers at N125.65k per litre and selling to the Independent Marketers at N133.28 per litre. “Concerned that since members of the two blocks are selling the products to retailers in the same market, the discriminatory prices have been affecting the participatory capacity of the Independent Marketers in the market as well as impoverishing them against their counterparts in the sector. It therefore notes that, there is the need to check the untoward action of PPMC and PPPRA in order to give all marketers a sense of belonging.  Reps to investigate PPMC, PPPRA over disparity in Petrol pump price FG saves N9.4bn in one month from petrol, kerosene subsidy NNPC probe will lead to nothing—Analysts say Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.