The governor of Rotary International for District 9125, Dr Victor Onukwugha has pleaded with Nigerians to maintain projects donated by rotary clubs. He made the plea while inaugurating the newly-renovated N2.08m eight classrooms donated to Galuwyi Primary School by the Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama. He assured that Rotary International would continue to address the plight of the poor and the vulnerable all over the world. “No investment is too small on education because an educated nation will be healthy, safe and developed on a faster pace. Education is one of our six areas of focus and we remain committed to it. “I am happy that RC Abuja Maitama has renovated these eight classrooms to quality standard. If a project is not up to acceptable standard, I do not commission it. We hope in the next few years, future leaders and heroes/ heroines will emerge from this school to contribute their quota to national development. “For  the people of Galuwyi Village, I am happy that the District Head said the community had never felt the presence of government except the interventions of Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama. This is encouraging; we will do more for you and other communities in the District 9125.” The Connect President of RC Abuja Maitama, Rotn. Eucharia Ekweozoh, said the total cost of the renovation of the classrooms was N 2,058,400 The district head of Galuwyi, Chief Ezekiel Dimas said: “We have never felt the impact of the government. All our basic amenities have been provided for us by Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama. We appreciate Rotary International for coming to our aid.” Charity should be our way of life – Rotary governor Rotary urges support for rural communities Rotary’s NNPPC donates N7m solar borehole to Daki Biyu Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.