Five persons, who the police described as members of a gang of terrorists, were arrested at the weekend in a shoot-out with policemen in Satellite Town, Lagos State. Many other persons were injured, while property destroyed by the bandits was put at over N50 million. The Divisional Police Officer, Satellite Town police station, Chike Oti, was said to have led some policemen to dislodge the suspected hoodlums and arrested the five men. A police source at the Area E Command, FESTAC Town, alleged that the hoodlums were being controlled by a traditional ruler “who had constituted himself as a lord in Satellite Town.” The police said that items the suspects  destroyed included a warehouse situated at No. 470, Old Ojo Road, Lagos, and vehicles parked on road shoulders. The police said the presence of the hoodlums, whose number they put at over 100, caused pandemonium in Satellite Town as they attacked residents. A resident, Uche Ezeudo, said, “the heavily armed thugs invaded the warehouse belonging to movie- maker, Igwe Gabosky Okoye, and looted property that included electronic sets, assorted drinks and sports equipment. “We later learnt that the hoodlums were sent by a traditional ruler to destroy the warehouse for Okoye’s failure to pay N15 million demanded as settlement for the said property. All Okoye’s attempts to show them his federal government valid Certificate of Occupancy number 23/23/77 registered at the Federal Land Registry, Lagos, since 1995 fell on deaf ears.” The Secretary, Landlords Association, Satellite Town, Kareem Oseni, corroborated Ezeudo’s statement. When contacted, Okoye lamented that all efforts he made to alert the police when the suspected hoodlums were on rampage failed. He said, “those boys are cultists and members of a terrorist group, which if not controlled now, will be worse than Boko Haram in future. They have seized various items from their owners. They have a place for their large number of thugs, an armoury for their weapons and a burial ground for their victims. “Okada operators, tanker drivers and commercial bus drivers are afraid of them as they unleash mayhem on anyone who dares them. Business owners in Satellite Town and environs are at their mercy. The thugs can invade any business premises or residential property and demand for any amount. They even give people a time frame to pay or face the consequences of not paying or delay in payment.” Our correspondent learnt that last week, a team of over 100 policemen carried out a special operation in the area with a view to arresting the thugs, but were openly confronted and even held hostage for hours by the heavily armed thugs.  Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.