Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria Kaduna branch has donated cash to five orphans including a four-year-old girl, as part of activities to commemorate the birthday of Prophet Mohammed (SAW) (Eid-el-Maulud). During the Maulud Nabiy celebrations, the orphans, four-year-old Faheeza Yusuf, Sofiat  Dhikrullah, Sheriffdeen Hassan Temigbe, Mohammed AbdulRahman and AbdulLateef Mohammed Bashir, drawn from the five divisions of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society, Kaduna branch, each received the sum of N10, 000 each from ADS to cater for their needs and mitigate their financial challenges following the loss of their parents. Delivering the Maulud Nabiyi lecture, the guest lecturer, Sheikh Imran AbdulWahab said it was wrong to believe that the day should not be celebrated. “Those saying there is no Maulud are ignorant. Maulud is what we should be doing openly because whoever we like, we should tell others about him. Allah (SWT) reported that the best behaviour, best mode of life, lie in Prophet Mohammed (SAW). “If we organise memorial lectures to pay tribute to the great people, who are no more so that young people can learn about and emulate them, why won’t we immortalise Prophet Mohammed (SAW). Whoever says there is no Maulud said Mohammed was not born because Maulud means commemorating the birth of the Prophet.’’ Sheikh AbdulWahab commended Ansar-Ud-Deen Society for supporting orphans and urged the Society to sustain the programme. Chairman of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria Kaduna branch, Alhaji AbdulHadi Olapade said the support given to the orphans was part of the society’s resolve to reach out to the less privileged in the society. “We hope to do better than this and capture more people in our programme in the future. We also have programmes to support widows and empower youths and women who are in need, apart from visits to the prisons, IDP camps, hospitals and cemeteries.”  2nd Term: Ansar-Ud-Deen congratulates El-Rufai, task on insecurity, job creation Meaning and lessons of Eid el Maulud Eid el-Maulud Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.