Nigeria’s leading Pay TV service provider, MultiChoice Nigeria, has announced plans to give all its customers on DStv and GOtv a happier festive season to remember with its world class entertainment, beginning from this November. The company has also launched a new brand campaign with the themes: ‘Happier with DStv’ and ‘Make Time for Family with GOtv,’ as it will enabled its customers to enjoy more curated contents to make this year’s festive season exciting. “We continue to put our customers at the heart of everything we do, that’s why customers on DStv and GOtv will experience specially curated content, surprise pop-up channels and other top-notch value added services. “DStv and GOtv customers will be spoilt for choice with the hottest contents and a Happier Holiday Season,” says Martin Mabutho, the Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria. According to him, some of the contents lined up include: Nigeria Festivals which feature the biggest music concerts and shows on the continent such as AFRIMA 2019, Unusual Praise, The Experience, Calabar Carnival, Akwa Ibom Christmas Concert, Miss Africa, and Greater Lagos on both DStv 198 & GOtv 29. “Customers can also look forward to Africa’s premier boxing Fiesta, GOtv Boxing Night, which is coming up on December 28 on SuperSport. “Also, all Premier League, El Classico & more Live sports with experts’ commentary and analysis on SuperSport this festive. “In addition, the much-loved special kiddies’ pop up channel, Animania opens December 4, and will be the perfect companion for DStv kids this season with the best-animated movies all day & every day. Animania is exclusive to M-Net Smile (Ch. 105) on DStv Premium,” he added. MultiChoice launches #FestiveTogether campaign for DStv, GOtv subscribers MultiChoice offers DStv and GOtv Customers ‘Step Up’ bonuses MultiChoice launches special Ramadan pop-up channel on DStv, GOtv Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!