Farmers and stakeholders in Nigeria’s poultry industry yesterday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to keep the borders closed to drive the nation’s economic growth and food sufficiency. They spoke in Abeokuta, Ogun State at the opening ceremony of this year’s Nigeria Poultry Show organised by the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN). It has as its theme “Nigeria Poultry Industry: Managing the Value chain for National Development.” The poultry farmers submitted that Nigeria could only get better with the border drill, as it would equally boost sales and production in the industry. The PAN President, Mr Ezekiel Ibrahim in his address, submitted that the closure would translate into greater employment opportunities in Nigeria. Ibrahim, who was represented by the National Secretary, Prince Joseph Aladesuyi asked the Federal Government to wade in “suffering of the farmers due to high interest rates from banks.” He warned PAN members against unwholesome practices and unnecessary increase in prices of products, which according to him, could thwart gains of the borders closure. “I also want to appeal to the Federal Government basically on behalf of the Nigerian farmers. We are suffering because of the high interest rate from our banks. We appreciate the ongoing Anchor Borrowers programmes but it does not go to all farmers. Please, the Federal, State and Local Governments, your interest is very important in the poultry value chain in Nigeria,” he pleaded. Corroborating the PAN President on the alleged unwholesome practices, the Director General of National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof Mojisola Adeyeye cautioned poultry farmers against using anti- biotics in animal feeds as growth promoter. Adeyeye who was represented by a Chief Regulatory Officer, Akinwale Fagboroye said  “the practice is harmful as it leads Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR) in human beings.”  Smuggling, feed cost in focus as poultry farmers end show Bird flu: Poultry farmers get N1.8bn compensation Poultry farmers meet over Olam, other issues Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.