The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on Sunday said it has secured a 20-year jail term against Mr. Olanrewaju Kayode, a part-time examiner at The Polytechnic, Ibadan, for committing examination malpractice. ICPC spokesperson, Rasheedat Okoduwa, said the sentence was handed down by Honourable Justice Joyce Abdulmalik of the Federal High Court sitting in Ibadan, Oyo state after having found Kayode guilty of all charges preferred against him. Kayode she explains was a part-time examiner who assessed and marked students’ examination scripts of the Department of Accountancy of The Polytechnic, Ibadan. He had been arraigned by ICPC in June 2016 on a 5-count charge for allegedly collecting sums of money from five students of the institution and attempting to assist them to alter and secure higher examination scores on different scripts written outside the Examination Hall. She said all offences contravened sections 9, 9(2), 9(2a) and 10b of the Examination Malpractices Act, CAP E15 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 1990. She added that the final judgement against Kayode was secured after the ICPC through Prosecution Counsel, Barrister Aderonke Bisi-Balogun proved beyond reasonable doubt that he committed all the offenses levelled against him. The ICPC said, “Justice Abdulmalik, in handing down the judgement stated that the convict was to serve 4 years jail term on each of the five counts, bringing the total to 20 years imprisonment. The sentence is to run concurrently commencing from 20th June 2016, the first day of his arrest.” Why Poly Ibadan expelled students, staff Exam Malpractice: Jail term is not the solution Page 48 Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.