The Kaduna State Police Command has arrested a village head in Chikun Local Government Area of the State for allegedly working with kidnappers. The village head was among the 39 suspects paraded by the state’s Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo Abubakar, yesterday. Other suspects include; a gang that killed two of their abductees after collecting N2.8 million ransom and two persons linked with the kidnap of six female students and two teachers of Engravers College, Kaduna. The police spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo, alleged that the village head of Ungwan Luka, Samaila Luka, works for kidnappers by giving them information and getting share of ransom collected. He said the kidnappers, whom the village head allegedly worked with, killed a policeman after taking ransom. Meanwhile, Luka, while fielding questions from newsmen, denied working for kidnappers, though he confessed being paid twice out of the three times he took ransom to the kidnappers. According to him, “I have helped people to take ransom to the kidnappers three times. The first time, the kidnappers rewarded me with N100,000, the second time, they gave me N50,000, but the third time, they didn’t give me anything. “I know nothing about the policeman the kidnappers killed. God and the police woman who was released are my witnesses. When I took the ransom to them, that was the third time I took ransom to the kidnappers, but after collecting it, they refused to give me the policeman. Me and the other police woman cried and begged them, but they refused. They said the policeman used to insult them. That day, they even collected my phone and they didn’t give me any money,” he said. Luka however confessed that he never reported to the police that kidnappers gave him share of the ransom he took to them. DSP Sabo who noted that Kaduna has some peculiar security challenges; amongst them, armed banditry, cattle rustling, kidnapping, armed robbery, said the command was succeeding in reducing them. ‘‘Recently, the command has been relatively calm, as the bandits can no longer carry out coordinated attacks largely due to our strategic deployment as well as the public support we receive which forced the criminals to resort to soft targets on the outskirts and hamlets where there are no firm security structures. “However, the command has intensified efforts towards ensuring safety and security of the populace through some coordinated raiding of criminal hideouts by our gallant operatives and the IGP’s Special Tactical Squad (STS) and IRT as well as active Community Engagement Initiative in line with the Inspector General of Police mandate on community policing. “Some of these suspects confessed to series of kidnappings within and outside the state. “We also recovered ten AK47 rifles, four pump action, two locally made pistols, one locally made gun, 154 live ammunition, 17 cartridges, four vehicles, four motorcycles among others. “In view of the successes recorded and the drastic reduction in crime rate in the command within the period under review, we cannot afford to relent on our efforts to sustain the gains. I therefore, reiterate my call to the general public to continue to be supportive of the police,” he said.  Kaduna: Police nab Village Head over kidnapping, parade 38 other suspects States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits Police arrest kidnappers of lawmaker, three ABU students, others in Kaduna