Delegates to the 49th Conference of Body of Federal and State Auditors-General in Nigeria have identified the absence of an Audit Act, which will guarantee administrative and financial autonomy for the Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation, as impediments to audit institutions work. The delegates also agreed that beyond affecting audit institutions efficiency and effectiveness, it is one critical challenge facing audit institutions in Nigeria. Administrative and Financial autonomy are two of three qualities required for a nation’s Supreme Audit Institution to be truly independent – the third being legal autonomy, which Section 85 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, already provides. Delivering a keynote address on the theme: “Prospects and Challenges of the Audit Institutions in Today’s Nigeria” at the Audit conference in Abuja, the Auditor-General for the Federation, Mr. Anthony Mkpe Ayine, said inadequate independence of the Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) in Nigeria, remains a  major challenge facing the body. According to him, in order to reposition audit institutions, generally, to meet their constitutional mandates, “it is imperative to ensure that the three-fold Audit Independence that will give the Legal, Administrative and Financial Autonomy is provided”. The Chairman of the Body of Federal and State Auditors-General, Abdu Usman Aliyu, who is also the Auditor-General for Bauchi State, while giving his welcome address, said the issue of autonomy for Audit Institutions remains an impediment to the growth of the body and ultimately hinders accountability and good governance in the country.  The nation’s Audit House and the transformation within CSOs urge Buhari to assent audit service bill BPE and its unaudited accounts Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.