The police on Wednesday arraigned a job seeker, Curtis  Nwafor, in Abuja, for allegedly cheating one Miss Maureen Omale of N500, 000 in the guise of facilitating a loan for her. Nwafor, 58, who lives at Damagaza Village, FCT, Abuja, is facing charges of impersonation, breach of trust and cheating, before a Grade I Area Court in Mpape. Prosecution counsel, Mr Stanley Nwaforaku, told the court that on Feb. 3, 2015, the defendant took Omale to an office at Wuse, where he introduced himself as a barrister. “The defendant deceived the complainant, Omale, to believe that he can help her to process and facilitate a N15 million loan. He charged her N500, 000,” Nwaforaku said. The counsel  said that the complainant made a part-payment of N100, 000. “After the part-payment, the defendant prepared an agreement and Omale subsequently paid N400, 000 in installment. “Immediately the defendant got bank alerts, he started giving excuses, refused to pick calls and disappeared for two years. “The defendant was nowhere to be found until he was arrested by the police,” he said. Nwaforaku said the case was reported at the Apo Police Station by  Omale of J.22, Abdulkadir Phase 2, Barnawa, Kaduna, sometime  in May. According to him, the offences contravene Sections 132, 312 and 322 of the Penal Code. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The judge, Mr Salihu Ibrahim, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N500,000 and with one surety in like sum. Ibrahim ordered that the sureties must live within the court’s jurisdiction and have their addresses verified. He adjourned the case until Nov. 20, for hearing. (NAN)  Police arraign architect for allegedly impersonating ICPC official Woman arraigned for allegedly cheating another of N150, 000 as visa fees Trader docked over criminal breach of trust Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.