The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) and Thelo DB have signed a memorandum of understanding at the Africa Investment Forum in Johannesburg, South Africa. The agreement will give both parties an opportunity to develop, finance and operate railway projects across Africa. Thelo and Afreximbank agreed to collaborate to modernise the continent’s railways, thereby promoting trade, investment and economic and skills development.  Both see the urgent need for efficient and effective transportation and logistics on the continent, particularly in the freight railway sector. African governments have long been discussing the importance of the regional integration of infrastructure projects as one of the ways to both free and speed up the movement of goods in order to stimulate intra-Africa trade. Afreximbank President Prof. Benedict Oramah said the two companies were committed to supporting trade on the continent. “That includes creating capacity to deliver to the markets. With Thelo DB’s capacity to deliver and operate railway mobility systems and Afreximbank’s ability to finance projects, we have an incredibly strong team,” said Oramah Thelo DB is looking at projects in Southern, East and West Africa, which the company believes are home to corridors that transcend country borders. The MOU is part of the realisation that the African Continental Free Trade Agreement will face challenges without the logistical capacity to move goods. “Rather than building our own expertise as Thelo DB, working in an integrated manner with Afreximbank magically gives us a solution to that challenge. So we can now sit down with our clients and say not only do we bring technical capacity of a global standard, we bring you unbelievable capital mobilisation in the MOU we signed this morning,” said Ronald Ntuli, Thelo Group Chairman.  Afrexim Bank to finance Africa’s rail networks ‘African rail sector needs $20bn investments yearly’ Africa searches for new trading partners to boost development Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.