The Borno state government has purchased assorted mobile phone items and other toolkit for distribution to traders and mobile phone repairers,  who lost their properties in a fire disaster incident at the GSM market in Maiduguri metropolis. The government was also working towards securing a package of non-interest loans from Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) for those young entrepreneurs whose working capital was consumed by the inferno. Kanem Trust learnt that all these provisions were offered to entice the Jagwal market operators to relocate to a new government designated market place at Bulunkutu along Maiduguri International Airport road. “If you cooperate with the government, we will continue to support you,”  Governor Babagana Zulum told representatives of the young traders who visited him to discuss their relocation to the new market. “We are going allocate shops to all those who have shops among you in the new market,” he said, explaining that the move was to provide a befitting market with parking space, enough shops and with fire-fighting equipment. “Because of what happened to you, you are not going to pay for the rent of shop in the first year of allocation. I urge you to be united and cooperate with government, so that you will get more assistance from government. “Government has purchased tools worth N200 million to be distributed to your members. We are also going to liaise with Development Bank of Nigeria to secure non interest loans to your members,” he added. He noted that wherever the traders may be, their customers would definitely fellow them. “I give you from now to December 31, 2019 to relocate from GSM market at Post-Office to the new market in Bulunkutu or risk your shops to be demolishd.” The governor further stated that government wanted to use the Post-Office market space for construction of a flyover bridge so as to decongest the area. Speaking earlier, the state Commissioner for Trade and Commerce, Yarima Kareto, said: “They (traders) are here base on your invitation. We really appreciate your concern and fatherly assistance to the traders of the GSM market.” Also speaking on behalf of members of the GSM village, the Jagwal market chairman, Nasiru Abdullahi, thanked the governor for his assistance. “We are grateful  for the procurement of working materials worth over N200 million for onward distribution to our members after obtaining some skill acquisition training,” he said. Insurgency: How Borno youth are reviving businesses Business in a time of insurgency Maiduguri GSM market yet to open after blast