The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite has said with over 44 different minerals in Nigeria, there are endless opportunities to invest in the sector. Adegbite said this at the just concluded National Council on Mining and Minerals Resource Development (NCMMRD) meeting in Ekiti. “It may interest you to know that the mining eco-system in Nigeria is diverse with 44 different minerals of varying economic grade and qualities. Hence, investment opportunities are endless in the sector. I want to reassure you that Nigeria has one of the most friendly investment policies in the world with high assurance of return on investment. I call on members of the public to leverage on the governments liberal policies and reap maximum benefits.” He said. He further stated that the Mining roadmap launched by his predecessor will be achieved through stakeholder engagement which would ultimately increase mining contribution to GDP as well as offering shared prosperity to all stakeholders in all the Mining Value Chain (MVC) such as Exploration, Mining and Beneficiation and Trade. Former Minister of Mines and Steel Development and the Governor of Ekiti state, Dr Kayode Fayemi, said the goal of the mining roadmap is that mining would contribute five percent (5%) to the national GDP by 2025 and help diversify the nation’s economy. “It is my expectation that this council would spend time to devise strategies and policies that will ensure the acceleration of mining contribution to the National GDP” Fayemi said.  FG seeks local investors in mining, steel sector ‘Dangote’s voyage into coal mining to conserve forex for FG’ FG, Russian government to partner in reviving Ajaokuta Coy-Minister Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.