Nigeria with its resources and population should be exporting vehicles to other countries, the Managing Director (MD) of BtoB Events, Jamie Hill, has observed. Hill whose firm organised the West Africa Automotive Show (WAAS), an automatic parts exhibition which held in Lagos last weekend said it is doable going by the Federal Government’s emphasis on promoting local content in vehicle assembling. He lauded the Federal Government for prioritising Made-in-Nigeria vehicles, saying,“I think it is very proactive, the plan to increase the number of cars on Nigeria’s roads to be Made-in-Nigeria, and I think that is something we are pleased about. We are bringing the best technologies and spare parts around the world. We want to align ourselves with the plan of the Federal Government.” The exhibition attracted stakeholders from countries including China, Indonesia and Morocco, with over 100 exhibitors partaking in the three-day event. He further said WAAS would align with the plans of the government and the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) and added that, “There is a significant value for the auto parts market in Nigeria. There is a lot of value placed in this market from the rest of the world.” Jet Motors at the event displayed its Jet Mover which is made with significant Nigerian content. The Director of Sales and Marketing of Jet Systems Automobile Industries Limited, Sanjay Rupani, said it would leverage on the platform of WAAS “to show the world that we have a product that is not just only good for the road conditions of Nigeria, but can be used for other roads.”   3,000 participants for W/African automotive parts exhibition Why Nigerians still prefer ‘tokunbo’ vehicles – Dealers Stakeholders disagree on vehicle importation ban Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.