The Kwara State government has shown concern over the World Bank rating of the state as the lowest in the North Central region of Nigeria in the ease of doing business. The state governor, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, expressed dismay at a World Bank report of 2018 which ranked Kwara 30th out of 37 states including the FCT – and the lowest in the North Central – in the ease of doing business. The Governor spoke at the North Central regional engagement on Ease of Doing Business which was organised by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and the Kwara State Government. “On the national average, according to the report, Kwara ranked the lowest among its peers in the North Central. In terms of starting a business, Kwara ranked 7th out of the seven states sampled in the zone, including the Federal Capital Territory (Abuja),” he said. Governor AbdulRazaq pledged to implement reforms to ease business climate in the state, saying the current narrative about it ranking lowest in the North Central region is unacceptable. The governor who was represented by Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi said, “Our officials are to note that this narrative must change going forward. Kwara must reclaim its glory.” He added that many steps are already being taken by his administration to turn the page, citing the ongoing reforms at the Kwara State Internal Revenue Services (KW-IRS). Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business Dr Jumoke Oduwole, said PEBEC has done a lot within the last three years to ease the business environment in Nigeria, with the country moving many inches up the ladder in global ranking. She charged the North Central zone, which she called a vital trade corridor in Nigeria, to break some barriers against SMEs by implementing reforms already recommended by PEBEC which itself has carried out over 140 reforms.  100 days of hope, prudence and restoration in Kwara KWSG to access $60m from W/Bank for roads construction Jonathan’s visit and the politics of Kwara Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.