The Federal Government has assured the pensioners that the circular for the implementation of the N30,000 new national minimum wage for the workers will be issued simultaneously with that of the Pensioners. According to a statement, the President, Nigeria Union of Pensioners, NUP, Abel Afolayan, on Tuesday at the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the Union in Ibadan, Oyo State; said the Acting Chairman, National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission (NSIWC),  Ekpo Nta, had assured pensioners that the circular would be issued simultaneously. Recall that the Federal Government and the Organized Labour had signed the agreement on new minimum wage and the attendant adjustment for all categories of workers, “the next in line is the pensioners.” He said. Speaking during the NEC meeting held in Oyo, the NUP boss stressed that pensioners were long overdue for a review since 2015. “I know all of you are very agitated to know how far we have gone on this matter, especially when it has become a common knowledge that pensioners are already due for a review since 2015, having last enjoyed a meagre 33.4% increment since July, 2010.” “We are together with the NLC on this struggle for the Minimum Pension and we were told to wait for the official release at the much-expected circular for the workers, then we shall pick it up from there. I want to assure you that definitely, there shall be light at the end of the tunnel.” Afolayan noted. Earlier, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, who declared the NEC meeting open said that his government had in September 3 this year approved the sum of N1.4 billion to be paid to Primary schools teachers and local government workers for their gratuities. Represented by the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, Seyi Makinde, said: “This NEC meeting call for every one of us to look at the issues and challenges that are facing pensioners in Nigeria and come out with a distinct solution that will see both the Federal Government, and state governments in ensuring the welfare of pensioners.” Meanwhile, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, said the administration of President Muhamladu Buhari, was committed more than ever to continue to make life more meaningful for the Nigerian pensioners and all Nigerians. The Registrar of Trade Union, Mr. A. O. Falonipe, advised all trade unions to submit their audited annual financial accounts promptly, adding, “let me use this opportunity to remind you of your statutory responsibilities to the Office of the Registrar of Trade Unions in terms of prompt rendition of your audited annual financial accounts. “I want the leadership of trade unions at all levels to note that the check-off deductions from the member’s wages are public funds that are supposed to be accounted for.”  Pensioners to enjoy new minimum wage with workers nationwide – NUP president NUP demands N25,000 minimum pension ‘We’ll disgrace governors owing salaries at airports’ Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.