The Minister for Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen, has promised to support the Daughters of Abraham Foundation (DOAF) to actualize the dreams of its founder, the late Mrs Julie Useni. The minister spoke at the 25th anniversary of the foundation in Abuja at the weekend. She called on other Nigerians to emulate the late Mrs Useni, whom she said lived her life well and impacted positively on the lives of others, promising that the support she used to give to the foundation in her personal capacity would now be taken over by the ministry. “I celebrate DOAF on her 25th anniversary. I was a friend to the late Mrs. Julie Useni and was at the inaugural event 25 years ago and her work speaks for her up till now,” she said. Tallen commended Mrs. Margaret Bargo, the Director of DOAF and thanked Gen Jeremiah Useni for keeping alive the vision of  her friend and sister. “I was a friend to Julie Useni and I will continue to stand by DOAF. I thank God for this opportunity to occupy the seat of Minister Women Affairs and I will do my best to support the foundation. I just came back from a council meeting in Akure yesterday and have three weddings today but I had to cancel to celebrate with you. “Every year during graduation of the rehabilitated girls, they are given working tools to start their businesses because an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. We need so many income generating activities in Nigeria and I am glad to be a part of DOAF. “Mrs Bargo, be assured that the support I used to give in my personal capacity will improve, these income generating activities you are doing will be supported by my ministry. I celebrate a life well spent of Julie Useni, her faithfulness, dedication to humanity will always be remembered,” the minister added. The director of the foundation, Mrs Bargo, in her opening speech, said 25 years is a great milestone in the life of an institution and it calls for real celebration. “What we are doing today is to shift our attention away from ourselves, but to God, the one who had sustained and kept DOAF against all odds. Our little human efforts either as financiers, trustees, staff or supporters means nothing if God is not involved. So, what we are seeing today is God’s stamp of approval on the work DOAF has been doing. We are not here to blow our trumpets, but to turn all praise and adoration to God,” she added.  Foundation graduates 11 in vocational skills Daughters of Abraham organizes stakeholders dinner DOAF graduates 13 daughters on 21st anniversary Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.