The Katsina State House of Assembly yesterday suspended indefinitely the confirmation of commissioner-nominees slated for yesterday, blaming “technical issues” as reason. This is just as the Kano state House Assembly is set to commence the screening of commissioner-nominees today. The Katsina assembly had last week deferred the confirmation till yesterday, only to announce its suspension indefinitely. At resumed sitting yesterday, the matter, which was the first item under order paper (programme of events) of the day was moved by the majority leader, Abubakar Abukur, but it was not discussed. Instead, it was deferred indefinitely. Speaking to newsmen after the sitting, Abukur said the indefinite suspension was in line with constitutional provisions. “We did this in line with the Nigerian Constitution that gives us the mandate and privileged to take at least 21 working days. The governor’s letter was dated 16th and received it on 17th. If you count from then till now we have not exceeded 21 working days,” he said. When contacted, the Special Adviser to the governor on Legislative Matters, Abdullahi Mahuta, blamed the suspension on the non-submission of relevant documents. “This is a failure on my side and I take full responsibility.  I arrived today and pleaded with them. The assembly wanted to do things accordingly unlike before,” he said. Meanwhile, Kano State House of Assembly will today commence the screening of 20 commissioner-nominees presented to it by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Dr. Ganduje had yesterday presented a list of 20 nominees to the parliament for screening and confirmation as commissioners. The governor’s request was conveyed via a letter read on the floor of the House yesterday, by the Speaker of the House, Alhaji Abdulaziz Garba Gafasa. After reading the letter, the speaker ordered the nominees to appear before the House today (Tuesday) for screening. The nomination was made over five months after the governor was inaugurated for a second term. Eight of the nominees served as commissioners in his first term while the remaining 12 are new faces. The former commissioners are Malam Muhammad Garba, Alhaji Murtala Sule Garo, Dr Kabir Ibrahim Getso, Alhaji Musa Iliyasu Kwankwaso, Alhaji Muhammad Tahar Adamu, Alhaji Ahmed Rabi’u, Alhaji Shehu Na’Allah and Barr. Ibrahim Mukhtar. The new faces are Sanusi Kiru, Lawan Abdullahi Musa, Kabiru Ado Lakwaya, Dr Zahra’u Muhammad Umar, Mahmud Baffa Dan Santsi, Muhammad Baffa Takai, Mukhtari Ishaq Yakasai, Sadiq Aminu Wali, Dr Aminu Tsanyawa, Nura Muhammad Dankade, Ibrahim Ahmed Karaye and Engineer Magaji Da’u. Katsina assembly concludes commissioner-nominees screening, defers confirmation Nasarawa Assembly confirms commissioner-nominees as Gombe, Katsina, Kwara set for screening Masari submits 13 commissioner nominees to Assembly Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.