A large number of Christian and Muslim faithful converged at the Christ Evangelical Intercessory Fellowship Ministry in Kaduna to celebrate the anniversary of the church in order to promote religious tolerance. The church, which was established 30 years ago has played a significant role in supporting orphan widows, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), correctional service inmates and physically challenge persons in various state across Northern Nigeria as well as Niger and Benin Republic. The General Overseer of the church, Pastor Yohanna Buru noted that it has now become a tradition for Muslims and Christians from various places across the north to join them in celebrating the anniversary of the church. The pastor expressed satisfaction with the turn-out adding, “We all must remember that we are from same parents (Adam and Eve) and we all worship one God and we all have our holy books Bible and Qur’an.” The Christian cleric called on Muslims and Christians across the globe to always forgive one another to make the world a better place. “We are begging Muslims and Christians to emulate the teachings of the holy books, so as to live in peace and harmony with everyone irrespective of his religion ideology because our Holy books teach us the importance of living in peace with one another and that we shall always remember the day of resurrection and judgment day,” he maintained. “I am calling on Christian and Muslim clerics to always teach their followers the real teachings of the Holy books so as to spread the gospel of peace and tolerance.” A Muslim cleric, Mallam Mukhtar Abdullahi Adamu, described the founder of the church as a committed Christian who is out for peace and unity of the people. He urged him to maintain the tempo for the development of the society.  Muslims celebrate Xmas at Pastor’s house in Kaduna Over 500 Muslims celebrate Christmas at Pastor’s house in Kaduna Church reaches out to destitutes, others at sallah Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.