The International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE) has called on the Federal Government, corporate organisations and humanitarian groups to provide adequate support through humanitarian services to the less-privileged in the society. The Director General of ICICE, Dr. Kabir Usman, made the call on Sunday during a free medical outreach, distribution of food items and clothes to less-privileged persons at Karamajiji Village, along Airport Road in the FCT. Dr. Usman said the only way the Nigerian society would move forward was to help the poor, and added that no society or nation had it all, but that the ability to assist others, especially the underprivileged, spoke volumes for the society. He said the centre had carried out a survey and discovered that the community had been neglected and therefore required as much medical support as possible. Represented by Dr. Garba Sani, a director in the centre, Dr. Usman said communicable ailments were associated with the dust of dry season and that preventive measures were necessary to prevent spread. The DG who disclosed that N700,000 was spent on the medical intervention, called for the support of other individuals, corporate organisations and government in offering humanitarian services to the less-privileged. He said, “This community is largely neglected and ignored, especially by humanitarian groups, and we discovered that they really need our support. “We are carrying out malaria tests and treatment, typhoid, sugar level, blood pressure through our qualified doctors and pharmacists. “All our medical outreaches are free and we are targeting over 700 indigent persons to benefit from the exercise.” Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Malam Sani Ibrahim, said majority of disabled persons in the area could not afford medical bills for their wives and children. Ibrahim, therefore, thanked the centre for the medical assistance, saying it had renewed their hope for better life and healthy living. (NAN)  Centre, UAE embassy offer free medical services to Abuja residents ICICE, UAE embassy want expansion of medical outreach in FCT FG, others tasked on medical outreach in Abuja