Another 22,000 beneficiaries have been enrolled for the federal government’s social welfare programme, National Cash Transfer in Kwara state. This is in addition to 10,173 beneficiaries who have received the monthly N5,000 stipends from the federal government 17 times. Head of unit, National Cash Transfer Office, Ilorin, Hajia Aminat Yahaya disclosed this on Monday at a capacity building workshop on federal government social welfare investment programme and anti-corruption in Nigeria for community leaders and civil society organisations. “We trained beneficiaries periodically on business ideas and they have been able to contribute and saved N256 million since inception while N176 million have been disbursed among them for a startup. “From the programme we have 22 established businesses, over 10,000 individual businesses, some of them repair boreholes in their communities and two communities built schools and paying teachers they employed from the token they are getting at the end of the month,” she said. The workshop which was organised by African Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ) in partnership with Centre for Social Justice was meant to train CSO and community leaders on the need to understand federal government social investment programme and anti-corruption fight. A facilitator, Kareem Abdulrazaq said participants at the workshop are expected to monitor the programmes and ask necessary questions in their communities.  ‘How women are benefiting from Conditional Cash Transfer’ ‘How women are benefiting from Conditional Cash Transfer’ ‘How women are benefiting from Conditional Cash Transfer’ Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.