The Simba Group, distributors of Luminous, a brand of inverters and batteries in Nigeria, has rewarded top dealers with an all-expense-paid family holiday to Dubai. The company invited spouses of the dealers for the first time, on what is now an annual international trip for its channel partners. The trip included a five-star hotel stay, visit to top tourist attractions in Dubai and various activities to delight the company’s channel partners. Particularly appreciated by the dealers and their spouses, was a Desert Safari, visit to the Dubai Underwater Zoo and visit to the top of the Burj Khalifa – the tallest building in the world. Mr Karan Mehta, a Luminous representative who was on the trip said, “This annual holiday has become somewhat of a mainstay of our partner development program as is a unique opportunity for us reward our hard working channel partners for their efforts in building the Luminous brand to the heights it has achieved in Nigeria”. He said the company followed a stringent short-listing process in which all Luminous dealers were evaluated on several parameters – including overall business volume and commitment to the company’s values with respect to service provision. Mr Ravi Srivastava, a Simba Group representative said, “The process of shortlisting dealers is always very difficult, because we value each and every one of them. The great thing is that this has become an annual trip, and we hope that many more dealers can qualify for the next one!”  Simba Group launches new Luminous inverter, rewards Nigerian dealers Lafarge Africa rewards distributors with trucks, tricycles, others Flour Mills deepens partnership with agents, rewards top dealers with 17 trucks Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.