As the preparations for next Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State heat up, ex-Niger Delta agitators have unanimously endorsed the candidature of Chief David Lyon of APC for governor of the state. The ex-militant leaders led by Mr Victor Ebikabowei, aka ‘Boyloaf’, Pastor Reuben and Joshua Machieva, who declared their stand during the grand finale of APC campaign in Yenagoa yesterday, urged all ex-agitators to vote for Lyon for a better Bayelsa. He said: “We endorsed David Lyon of the APC as our next governor. We believe he will bring the needed development to Bayelsa State because the outgoing government headed by Dickson has failed us. He has failed woefully and it’s not debatable, compared to what his contemporary in the Niger Delta has done. “We believe David Lyon will bring the needed development to Bayelsa State,  that is why I call on all ex-agitators and youths that come November 16, 2019, we should come out en masse and vote for David Lyon.” The APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, said the Bayelsa election would not be determined by bullet but through voting, and urged the PDP in Bayelsa to desist from causing violence during and after the poll in the state. Mr David Lyon, the APC gubernatorial candidate, said he was ready to take Bayelsa to the next level. He said, “I have seen the yearning of my  people and I must assure the people of Bayelsa that I will not fail  them. “All you have to do is to vote for the APC and every person in the state will enjoy dividend of democracy. Bayelsa will see light, Bayelsa will see development and empowerment,” Lyon said. Lyon, Diri set to clash in Bayelsa gov’ship contest APC primaries: Bayelsa stakeholders adopt David Lyon as governorship candidate APC primary: Bayelsa stakeholders adopt David Lyon Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.