Members of the House of Representatives, Chinda Kingsley Ogundu (PDP, Rivers), Chukwuma Onyeama, Umar Barde and Muraina Abiola may face sanctions over their alleged breach of legislative privilege. This followed a motion sponsored by Ibakpa Rolland Ben (PDP, Delta) under matters of urgent national importance at plenary yesterday. The motion accused Chinda and others of allegedly violating Section 24, Legislative Houses (Powers and Privileges) Act, Cap L.12, Laws of Federation of Nigeria, 2004 as well as extant provisions by claiming to be the minority caucus leader of the House of Representatives. According to him, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila in line with Order 7, Rule 8 of the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives, announced the minority leaders of the House on July 3, 2019 which was published in the votes and proceedings of the same date. “In spite of this, Mr Speaker, Hon. Kingsley Chinda, Hon. Chukwuma Onyeama, Hon. Umar Barde and Hon. Muraina Ajibola, are parading themselves as PDP caucus leaders and have been issuing public statements outside the nomenclature of this House; misleading the general public and causing confusion and disaffection in the House of Representatives. This is a gross abuse of our collective and individual privileges,” he said. He therefore called on the house to investigate and bring the violators to book. The house referred the matter to its committee on Ethics and privileges for investigation. It could be recalled that, Ndudi Elumelu was announced as the House Minority Leader by the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila which was rejected by the PDP. In a swift response, however, Chinda said he has the PDP mandate to be the caucus leader in the House of Representatives. “I am the PDP caucus leader in the House with the authority and consent of the party. PDP is a registered political party and a creation of law and not the rules of the house. PDP has its leaders in units, communities, amongst students, traders, professionals and parliamentarians. These leaders are recognised by the party as such. “I have the mandate of the PDP to act as its leader in the house. Other minority parties are free to have their caucus leaderships. I don’t see how that offends rule or law of the House or the constitution,” he said. House leadership: PDP summons Elumelu, Oke, Ikpeazu, others How Reps principal officers emerged PDP Reps clash over minority leadership seats Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.