An Igando, Lagos, customary court has answered the prayer of a 58-year-old man, Mr Daniel Udoekpo, to dissolve his marriage to his wife, Margaret, for alleged frequent fighting, infidelity and threat to his life. Udoekpo, a resident of No. 21, Aiyedun Street, Isheri-Oshun, Lagos, told the court that Margaret  started misbehaving when his business collapsed. He said, “When things were not going well like before, I had to sell my three cars so that my children could go to school. When my wife started attending vigil every day, I was seeing strange visitors in home strange visitors who claimed to be prophets and prophetesses on the invitation of my wife. Each time I asked my wife the reason of all these, it always resulted into fighting. “I was returning home from work one day when I received a call that my wife had been rushed to the hospital. I went straight to the hospital only to be told by the doctor that my wife was trying to abort a pregnancy. I wondered how she got pregnant because there was no intercourse between us around that time. Naturally, I began to suspect my wife of dating outside our marriage. Since then, my business has been going down and my clients were deserting me. It was revealed in our church that her adulterous act was the reason my business was going down. “She once poisoned my food and it was my children who informed me and told me to throw the food away. I stopped eating her food. She would go out and come in anytime that pleased her. This made me lose faith in her. I want the court to dissolve our marriage and grant me custody of the children.” Margaret denied bringing in prophets and prophetesses into the home anyhow, saying the man her husband was referring to was well known to him. She also denied maltreating her husband, as he alleged. The court president, Barrister Koledoye Festus Adeniyi, dissolved the marriage. Court dissolves 9-year-old marriage over adultery ''My wife appears and disappears using witch craft'' divorce-seeking man tells court ''I fall ill because my husband starves me of sex'' Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!