Senator Phillip Aduda, representing the FCT, has condemned the abduction of the traditional head of Rubochi, saying the incident showed that societal values have been lost. The senator, who spoke during a peace building and conflict resolution workshop yesterday in Abuja, described the abduction as unfortunate, adding that something was wrong when the custodians of culture were abducted. The one-day workshop, which featured presentations by security experts, was organised by the Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) in collaboration with Senator Phillip Aduda. “These are the things we have been talking about and we will continue to talk about until this menace called kidnapping stops. It is really unfortunate; it is never supposed to have happened because when you start kidnapping the people who are the custodians of our culture then something is wrong,” he said. While praying to God for his safe release, he urged security agencies to ensure the traditional head was rescued safely. “We are losing societal values which is not supposed to be because the first point of contact for anybody in those good old days were the traditional rulers. But today we have those who are supposed to protect us being kidnapped.” Also, the Ona of Abaji and Chairman of the FCT Traditional Council, Alhaji Baba Yunusa, said the abduction of the traditional head showed that the territory has gotten to the peak of kidnapping. Alhaji Baba, who was represented at the workshop by the Etsu of Kwali, Alhaji Shaban Audu Nizazo, called for synergy between the traditional council and security agencies. He said there should be smooth relationship between traditional rulers and security agencies in ensuring the safety of residents. “There must be continuous meeting between traditional rulers and the police where we give advice and where also the police or other security agencies give us advice so that we can perform better,” he said. Aduda meets district heads, calls for peaceful coexistence Senator’s brother, who failed exam, appointed permsec Lagos govt suspends local chief for faking own kidnap