Kaduna State Governor and chairman, APC campaign council for Kogi Governorship election, Nasir El-Rufai has begged the people of Kogi State to forgive Governor Yahaya Bello for whatever wrongs he might have done to them. El-Rufai who spoke in Lokoja yesterday at the grand finale of the APC Governorship Campaign, went on his knees to apologize to those that would have been offended by the governor’s actions over the past three years of his administration. Daily Trust reports that he was joined in kneeling down by the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu. It was however observed that Bello did not join them. The governor described Bello as a young man who was bound to make some mistakes, adding that he would learn from such mistakes and do better. “Many people say that Yahaya Bello is young and that he has offended many people. Anybody that Yahaya Bello has offended, I am asking all of you to forgive him. He is young and bound to make mistakes and learn from them. “On his behalf, I’m appealing and kneeling down to forgive Yahaya Bello if he has offended you. He means well for Kogi State. He has brought young people into government. He has brought women into government. He has cleared salary arrears owed by past governments. You must all come out and support him. I beg you all”, he said. El-Rufai  said that his party, the APC was set to finally bury the main opposition PDP in the state after Saturday’s election. He said the PDP has governed Kogi for about 13 years but had nothing to show, saying the three years administration of Bello has brought transformation to the state. In his speech, Bello expressed optimism of emerging victorious at the poll. He said before he came on board, the state was seriously divided along ethnic lines, saying he has been able to unite the people. El-Rufai kneels, begs Kogi people to forgive Yahaya Bello We will bury PDP finally in Kogi – El-Rufai El-Rufai’s apology shows Bello doesn't merit second term – PDP Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!