Dr Akinwumi Adesina, President of African Development Bank (AfDB), has urged Nigerian youths to strive to acquire entrepreneurial skills so they can brace up to the challenges of the labour market. He made the call while delivering a lecture at the 13th convocation of Bowen University Iwo, in Osun state, a statement from the bank said. Adesina said the call became necessary in view of the need to make graduating students of the institution become entrepreneurs, create businesses, employ others and not be job hunters. “Let’s talk about investing your talents through entrepreneurship. In my days at the university, you got a job immediately after you graduated. Your future was set. “No longer that; the graduate today is graduating into a world of uncertainty. “Over 13 million young people enter the job market each year but only three million get jobs. Africa will have the largest number of youths joining the labour market by 2030 than all the world taken together,’’ Akinwumi said. According to him, “the higher ground is not to depend on others to employ you. The higher ground is for you to be job creators. The key to that is entrepreneurship.” He said there was the need for youths to persevere so as to be successful entrepreneurs. “The key is perseverance; persistence in doing something in spite of difficulty or delay in achieving success,” he added. Adesina also emphasised the need for universities to shift away from rote teaching into allowing students to experiment, try things, put ideas to work and innovate. “To do this, universities need to have structured institutional arrangements for supporting innovations. “Developing patents is not enough. Patents must lead to business and that can only happen through supportive environments for them to thrive. Setting up university foundries is a good way to achieving this,” he said. While identifying Nigerian women as very enterprising, Adesina said young females deserved special entrepreneurship programmes to unleash their potentials. Move from youth empowerment to youth investments – AfDB tells African leaders When world youths gathered in Abuja for unemployment Osinbajo unveils AfDB funded $258m intervention in north-east Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.