Partners West Africa Nigeria (PWAN) has enlightened Bwari community on what the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) is about as well as their rights in case of arrest by the police. Speaking to journalists yesterday during the sensitization programme in Bwari, Abuja, representative of PWAN, Hadiza Usman, said it was important that the people were enlightened about their rights in the community and how to handle cases of arrest and search protocols by the police. She said when a police officer comes to arrest a person, the person should not be handcuffed and must be told his or her offence before being taken away. Usman said the police should tell the suspect the offence before arrest, avoid torture when suspect is in their custody,  adding that the police has no right to arrest an innocent person just because the person is related to a suspect who has absconded. She also noted that when one is arrested, the police must give him the opportunity to call a person and be set free within 24 hours or else charged to court immediately after 24hrs. She said the new act also provides that women can now serve as surety. She noted that the Legal Aid Council, which is a partner of PWAN is providing free legal representation for people who are arrested and taken to court. She said they also go to Kuje prison to assist awaiting trial inmates for legal representation so that they either get freed or commence their jail term. The Chief of Barangoni, Danlami Nana, commended the organisation for enlightening his community on their rights during arrest and search protocol as well as the Administration of Criminal Justice Act. He said it will go a long way in helping them handle the police when they come for arrest.  Gwagwalada residents enlightened on administration of criminal justice page 46 ACJA 2015: Furore over police prosecutorial powers Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!