The committee for the investigation of local government administration in Imo state from 2011 to 2019 has said that it has discovered monumental fraud in the administration of local government system in the state. Chairman of the committee, Eze Duruiheoma (SAN) and the secretary, Barr. Ken Uzoechi, told newsmen at a press briefing in Owerri that the committee discovered that all the monies accruing to the local government was paid directly into the personal account of the local government chairman with no proper accounting system. The committee said that what was mind-boggling was that between January 2018 and March 2019, all the 27 local government areas in the state got nothing less then N2 billion monthly, but without proper account, stressing that what could only be found was vouchers for payment of salaries. According to the committee, all the local government chairmen who held sway during the period have been invited to explain their roles, adding however that instead of responding to the investigation, the former chairman, through the Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), G. T. O. Mgborokwu, has resorted to blackmail  and subterfuge to frustrate the work of the committee. For instance, Duruiheoma said that the former chairmen had, in s publication, alleged that the constitution of the committee was illegal, its members being members of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party while some of the members have cases hanging on their neck by the anti graft agencies and that their tenure was still subsisting. However the committee said that no amount of intimidation, spurious, malicious and libelous publication can deter it from carrying out its assignment to final conclusion. The committee said that it will soon turn in its first interim report to the government, adding that it would to the best interest of the former chairmen if they avail themselves of the opportunity to defend themselves of various allegations of financial impropriety and malfeasance in running the affair of the councils  instead of resorting to .cheap blackmail in order to whip up imaginary sentiments in an attempt to escape justice. Kogi’s story of many ghosts The many probes of Katsina Katsina's countless probes Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.