The Association of Former Telecoms Employees of Nigeria (ATEN) says the modality for members to be paid their pensions and other entitlements is to register and be cleared by their chapter coordinators. Mrs Routa Musa, National Adviser of the association who gave the advice in Abuja on Tuesday, urged the members to identify themselves with few leaders that have been introduced to Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) as representatives of the association. According to her, they include Mr. Gabriel Aremu, President, Mr. Makinde Olusegun, Secretary, Mrs. Routa Musa, National Adviser, Engr. James Icheme, Chairman Realisation Committee and Mr. Emmanuel Akawu, Secretary, Realisation Committee. Musa asserted the preparedness of the association to achieve the desired goal of its members through collective efforts of all and collaboration with Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) and other relevant stakeholders. The National Adviser lauded the former and present leadership of the association in ensuring payment of the pension, reiterating their commitment to work in tune with the law. “The Association of former Telecoms Employees of Nigeria (ATEN) has worked tremendously both in the past and present to ensure that the federal government pays us of our pension buyouts and other entitlements. “This is according to the rule of law as granted by the liquidation court ruling of April, 2014,” Musa said. Musa assured the members of Bureau of Public Enterprise’s (BPE) sincere efforts in ensuring that the pension and entitlements were paid in a very shortest time.  FG commits to pay electricity workers entitlements this month PHCN Handover: Workers abort planned strike, extend ultimatum to Nov 15 Ex-PHCN staff engage law firm over entitlements from BPE Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.