Suspected kidnappers have killed two friends in Kaduna after collecting N2.1 million ransom from their families. It was gathered that residents of Hayin Banki in Kaduna metropolis were thrown into confusion yesterday when they found out that the victims, Alhaji Abdullahi Kabiru and his friend, Alhaji Sanusi Dabai, have been killed. The victims were reportedly abducted at their farms along Kangimi Area of Turunku, headquarters of Igabi Local Government Area of the state about 12 days ago. A son of late Alhaji Kabiru, Moh‎ammed Dikko, told our reporter at their family residence, that his father’s body and that of his friend were discovered by vigilantes after the ransom was paid to their abductors few days ago. “When they (kidnappers) called, they demanded for N5 million for each person but we told them we don’t have that kind of money. So we continued to bargain with them until we reached an agreement to pay them N2 million. They also requested for recharge cards of N100,000 which we gave to them,” he said. Dikko said after the (kidnappers) received the ransom, they called the family and said that the money given was just for their feeding and that they will not release the victims. “It was two days later that the family decided to engage the services of vigilantes even though the police were also part of the rescue mission but their decomposing bodies were found inside the forest,” Dikko added. He also said the police arrested about 12 suspected kidnappers in the bush‎ during the operation. A family member of Dabai, who did not give his name, said the family, despite the shock, believed that every human being will surely taste ‎death. Efforts to speak with the spokesman of the police in Kaduna State, DSP Yakubu Sabo, proved abortive as he did not pick his calls as at the time of filing this report. States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits In Kogi, kidnapping for ransom thrives ‘Kidnappers showed me my children’s graves after taking N2.5m ransom’ Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.