Fresh outbreak of the Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) cow disease has killed dozens of cattle in Dambam local government area of Bauchi state Bauchi state of Chairman of the Miyyati Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) Alhaji Abdullahi Abubakar, popularly known as Sarkin Shanun Dambam, who disclosed this to North East Trust said that new outbreak struck on Monday at Dagauda district in Dambam LGA and the disease has killed many cows. “When I received the report from the affected herders I immediately contacted the Director Veterinary Services, who was in Abuja on an official assignment. He directed me to lodge our complain of the incident to IPO veterinary services in charge of Dambam LGA.’’ He said his officials had visited the scene of outbreak to support efforts by the cattle owners in controlling the situation. Abubakar said: “I just receive the report from one of the herders who lost three cows yesterday (Wednesday) from the fresh outbreak in Dambam LGA and the IPO from the LGA visited the affected area and preliminary investigation revealed that the affected animals were infected with CBPP disease.” Abubakar explained that hundreds of cattle were affected in the recent outbreak. “If quick intervention is not put in place Fulani herders will lose hundreds of cattle because even yesterday, Wednesday, another cow suddenly died in Dambam town.” He said the Director Veterinary Services had assured him that the ministry is working hard to ensure the commencement of the vaccination to  halt the spread of the disease and minimize the casualties of the animals. Meanwhile, the Bauchi state government said it would commence state wide vaccination against the Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP). The Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Samaila Adamu Guza, who disclosed this to North East Trust, said that the ministry had already placed order with the  National Veterinary Research Institute Vom for the production of the vaccines. “You know that the vaccines are not ordinary drugs you can go and buy in the market. We have asked the institute to produce the quantity of the vaccines we need in the state.’’ He said the ministry would begin the vaccination in the affected areas especially local governments where confirmed cases were recorded to curtail the spread of the disease. “All arrangements have been concluded to commenced the vaccination so as control the situation.”  Herders cry out as disease ravages cows in Bauchi Animal-to-human diseases hit Nasarawa hard Animal diseases hit Bauchi, FCT