A university don, Professor Tunde Falodun, has said that candidate for the position of Oluyin-Ekiti  should be a bridge builder, a good listener, an educated mind, a level-headed individual with the capability for the right judgment and a God- fearing, down-to-earth community mobilizer. Prof Falodun advised stakeholders in the selection process of the new Oluyin of Iyin Ekiti, to ensure that the right candidate emerges for the good of the land. The university don spoke yesterday on behalf of the Falodun family of Iyin royalty while reminiscing on the departed traditional ruler of the town, Oba (Justice) John Ademola Ajakaiye, who joined his ancestors in September 2019, after 14 years on the throne. The Iyin-Ekiti prince, who reflected on the footprints of the late monarch, said it transcended Iyin-Ekiti, as he was a dependable adviser to various organizations and governments at various levels that regularly seek his words of wisdom. According to him, it would be in the interest of the town to sustain this trend of development through a careful selection of the next occupant of the exalted stool of Oluyin of Iyin-Ekiti. Prof Falodun is a prince from the lineage of Oba Agboun, who was the 10th ruler in the town, which, according to him, was one of the lineages that constituted the Oketagidigidi ruling house of the town. He advised that attention should be paid to the realities of the moment, such that the next Oluyin should possess all the required qualifications to build on the glowing achievements of the former Kabiyesi. He noted that the town could not afford to trivialize the process of the selection of the new Oba because a lot depends on it for the sustainable growth of the town. “Oba John Ademola Ajakaiye, the late Oluyin of Iyin, may have joined his ancestors, but the outstanding achievements recorded during his reign as the 10th Oluyin would remain a watershed in the annals of the Iyin-Ekiti history. “Oba Ajakaiye brought a lot of progress to the town and lifted the stool of Oluyin to a great height, both within and outside the country,” he stated.  Dep Gov monarchs intervene in boundary dispute between 2 communities Deputy gov, monarchs move to end Ekiti boundary dispute Ekiti GOVERNORSHIP POLL : Fayose leads Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!