The FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, has urged investors to key into the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA)’s new transport policy. Speaking during the launch of the Safe, Functional and Efficient Transport Policy in the nation’s capital at the weekend,  the minister said investors could invest in painted or in unpainted taxis. Bello called on investors in the transport sector to partner with the FCTA to help cushion the effects of enforcement of the traffic rules and regulations, adding that requirements for the registration of cabs have been made easy to encourage more participants. While stressing that there was no ban on commercial tricycles and commercial motorcycles in the Federal Capital City (FCC), Bello emphasized that the law does not permit them on expressways or driving against traffic as they are inclined to do, adding that there are designated areas for them to operate. “What we are saying is that the laws are very clear. There are designated areas allowed for motorcycles. There are designated areas allowed for tricycles and what we are trying to do is to emphasize that. “Our objective is to save lives; to make the human life valuable the way it’s supposed to be. And how can we do that? We have to make sure that all traffic regulations are adhered to and the advantage we have is that all these are covered by law and we are going to use the provisions of the Nigerian Constitution, the laws of the highway code, the FCT Transport Regulations, the National Road Traffic Regulations and other traffic laws and regulations and we are going to back that with a robust support from the judiciary so that all those that violate traffic regulations and protocols are made to pay for it because that is the only way we can guarantee the safety of lives of our people,” he said. Chairman Painted Abuja Taxis, Shehu Yar’Adua, who spoke at the event said, the FCT Administration should have made a pronouncement for estates, hotels and offices to allow them have access into their premises to drop off and pick up passengers, adding that such pronouncement would also engender public confidence in their services. “I expect the minister would have made pronouncement that henceforth, all painted taxis are allowed to enter estates because they are the most recognized ones. This will also give investors encouragement to bring out their vehicles. You don’t expect somebody to bring out a vehicle and you are competing with illegal operators”, he stated  10 metro stations on Abuja Airport line to open soon – Minister Abuja needs more foreign investors FCTA and public transportation in Abuja Prostate  ENLARGEMENT? Don't Let Your PROSTATE Frustrate You! Here's A Better NATURAL Way To Shrink Your Prostate Enlargement! -No Surgery, -No Drugs. Shrink To Normal In Just 15 Days! Normalize Your Urination And Erection! Just Click To Get It Now!