The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has said the effect of border closure is more pronounced in the South-Western part of Nigeria being the financial and commercial hub of the country. Reacting to the extension of the border closure; the Director General of LCCI, Muda Yusuf commended the concern of government regarding security and economic sabotage which informed the closure; while he noted that the demands of sacrifice imposed on businesses and citizens by the border closure is disproportionate and becoming unbearable. “The effect is perhaps more pronounced in the south western part of the country being the financial and commercial hub of the country and the sub-region,” he reiterated. The continued closure, he said, has unintended consequences including complete shutdown of cross border trade (imports and exports) between Nigeria business and their counterparts in the west sub-region. “This has grave consequences for investments and jobs.  Many industries have invested in products registered under the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS). These are investors whose business models were anchored on market opportunities in the ECOWAS.  These investments have been completely disrupted and dislocated. “Majority of the victims of the border closure are small businesses, most of them in the informal sector. Their means of livelihood has been put in great jeopardy.  This class of traders does not have the capacity to move their products by sea because of the modest scale of their operations. Supply chains of some businesses have been completely disrupted; maritime sector investors have been denied opportunities offered by transit cargo destined for landlocked countries which normally comes through the Nigerian ports. The closure has triggered an unprecedented hike in prices with a devastating impact on the poor.  This implies further aggravation of the poverty situation in the country,” he lamented. He however stressed the need to fix some fundamental governance shortcomings as part of a sustainable solution. The LCCI boss said that institutions for effective border management and policing should be fixed, while he called for review of import tariff policies for better compliance; noting that current tariffs and charges are prohibitive. He said: “We need to review our foreign exchange policies to discount inherent subsidies. Besides, the exchange rate should reflect the key economic fundamentals. We also need to our infrastructures in order to build an economy that is efficient, productive and competitive.  Current infrastructure financing is grossly inadequate to make the economy competitive.  High production cost remains a fundamental problem for the economy. We also need to fix our seaports to reduce cargo diversion. Clearing cargo at the Nigerian ports is one of the most expensive and cumbersome in the world.” While he further stressed the need to urgently reform the oil and gas sector to free resources for infrastructure development and promote investment in the sector; he urged the recently inaugurated Economic Advisory Council to live up to the high expectations of Nigerians by offering sustainable and coherent policy options to government to save the economy and investors from further disruptions and dislocations arising from inappropriate policy choices. Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.