KANN Utility Company Limited which bought Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) for about $164 million (nearly N1billion) in the 2013 power sector privatization exercise may be enmeshed in investment issues. AEDC is one of the eight DisCos whose licence is being mulled for revocation by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), for not meeting the minimum requirement for bulk energy payment to the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) in July 2019. NERC in a recent published notice insisted that the affected DisCos including AEDC must defend their operations of the electricity distribution business latest December 7, 2019 or have their licences cancelled. The spokesman of NERC, Dr Usman Abba-Arabi confirmed the notice saying all the documents and defences to be submitted by the DisCos will be verified by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS). Enquiries from sources privy to the operation of KANN and AEDC said, the parent investor firm may not have held the shareholders meeting since 2017. Issues bothering on investors’ relations may be responsible for that. However, the board meetings for AEDC of which the shareholders/investors are part of, have continually held. The development is coming six years after KANN won the bid and took over AEDC on November 1, 2013. KANN is an abbreviation for Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger States (KANN) which are the franchise areas served by Abuja Distribution Company (DisCo). AEDC was among the 11 DisCos which the federal government sold off 60 percent of its stakes in them and retained 40 percent. KANN during the privatisation process was a joint venture comprising CEC Africa Investments Limited (CECA) and a local firm registered as Xerxes Global Investments Limited (Xerxes). KANN acquired Abuja DisCo for about $164 million. While CECA has the Chairman as Mr Siyanga Malumo, Xerxes has Ambassador Shehu Malami as its Chairman. Both firms had agreed to fund the purchase of the 60 percent stake in the DisCo, with an initial 25 percent payment to the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) and another 75 percent payable in August 21, 2013, about three months before the assets were finally handed over to the private hands. However, records show the present row between the investors may be due to several issues including equity contributions, hiring of management staff, among other issues. KANN through CECA raised the 25 percent initial equity payment that was about $41 million. It also solely provided a Debt Service Reserve Account of $40m as guarantee for the 75 percent balance taken as loan from the United Bank for Africa (UBA), in agreement with Xerxes. It was also learnt that CECA paid for the licence and every other thing during the privatisation process in 2013. The Parent Company Performance Agreement, a part of the privatisation document seen by this paper, was solely signed by CECA and submitted to BPE to close the transaction to acquire the DisCo. If the shareholders’ issues are not resolved, decisions of operating AEDC may be affected especially at a time when NERC is wielding its stick on DisCos. Responding to enquiries, the Secretary and contact person for KANN Utility Limited, Mr Solomon Danladi said the AEDC board meeting always held and that the last AEDC board meeting held on October 2nd, 2019. The KANN official confirmed that there has been a shareholders’ issue which was ongoing but that has not affected the operations of AEDC. “There is of course a shareholder issue that has been an ongoing thing, which never affected the operation of the company. The issue as far as KANN or AEDC is concerned has nothing to do with AEDC. This is because, watching the growth of the assets from when it was taken over. There is a growth in the company.” On the current notice by NERC to the DisCo to show cause why its licence should not be cancelled, the official noted that eight DisCos were involved and not just AEDC in isolation. He said the DisCo has made a response to NERC on that basis. “Many of the board meetings of AEDC have representatives, and actually the shareholders are the ones attending. So I don’t think that is true,” he said. Group supports NERC’s move to sanction 8 DisCos Abuja DisCo to engage NERC over licence withdrawal Abuja DisCo to engage NERC over licence cancellation Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.