The contractor handling Zing-Yakoko-Monkin road in Taraba state has returned to site seven years after abandoning the project. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing has in an advert recently threatened to revoke the contract if the  contractor failed to return to site. North East Trust correspondent, who visited the project site handled by Munir industries Trade Nigeria Limited, discovered that men are working on the reinforcement of drainages on the road. Similarly the Yard constructed by the contractor along the project site outside Zing town, which was over grown by grasses, has been cleared and construction materials brought in by the contractor. The project Director, Engineer Ahmad Shehu told North East Trust that they have returned to site and commenced work. He said  they would  start earth moving work  and equipment will soon be brought in. Engineer Ahmed Shehu further stated that the total length of the road project awarded to the company was 7.0 kilometers at the cost of N1.043billion and not the N41.045 billion being alleged. “How can a contract of 7.0 kilometers be awarded at N41,043,029,722.40,” Engineer Ahmed asked. However, a document obtained by Daily Trust from Federal ministry of works showed that the road  project was awarded in 2012 at the cost of N41,044,029,722.40. Meanwhile the communities in the area have welcomed the resumption of work on the road. A member of  Monkin community, Alhaji Musa Hamisu, explained that that road project was abandoned for seven years and nobody explained to them the reason. Alhaji Musa Hamisu also called the attention of the government to a dam project which was started in 2013 but has since been abandoned by the contractor. He called Federal government to set up committees to visit project sites especially those located in the rural areas to see  if the projects were executed or not. Contractor abandons Taraba road after N156m mobilisation Low patronage of local engineers on federal projects worries FG 3 years after, N1.6bn Gwagwalada/Dobi-Izom road still uncompleted Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.