The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is facing a hurdle on whether to throw its 2023 presidential ticket open or favour a particular region as its members are divided over the issue. Underground politicking and machinations are ongoing over the issue since the dismissal of the party and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar’s appeal by the Supreme Court. A top member of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) from the North who spoke with our correspondent in a telephone chat yesterday, described the issue of abandoning zoning ahead of the 2023 presidential election in the party as controversial. He explained that while some party leaders and stalwarts were in support of open ticket, others were in support of zoning, disclosing that extensive deliberations and consultations would commence on the issue after the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. The BoT member, who craved anonymity, said “I really don’t want to comment on this issue now because it is very controversial. But of course, we all know that throwing our ticket open will be a violation of the PDP constitution which recognises zoning.” Daily Trust recalls that PDP had fielded Atiku Abubakar from the North East and Chief Peter Obi from the South East as presidential candidate and running mate, respectively, in the February 23, 2019 poll, but they lost to the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari. But a stalwart of the PDP, Dr. Alhaji Aminu Yakudima, said tension would be doused if the party’s presidential ticket for 2023 would be left open for both northern and southern contenders to slug it out. Yakudima who was the pioneer Director of Administration of the party, argued that PDP had already produced president from both the northern and southern zones and should consider throwing its ticket open for all actors to drive the process. “There is nothing like zoning in the Nigerian Constitution or the Electoral Act. It is alien to the democratic form of government. Therefore, PDP should leave the 2023 presidential ticket open to all. Both the North and South have already benefitted. “Also I advise that governors should not be allowed to decide everything for the party,” he added. PDP National Publicity Secretary Kola Ologbondiyan however said the party was yet to give 2023 attention. PDP: Atiku’s defeat sparks agitation over 2023 presidential ticket No zoning formula for 2023 yet — PDP Who picks PDP’s ticket in 2019? Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.