The Minister of Science and Technology Dr Ogbonnaya has warned agencies of the ministry against contracting research works to outsiders. Dr. Onu handed down the warning during his facility visit to Project Development Institute (PRODA) in Enugu at the weekend. He said research agencies of the ministry should strive to produce experts who can hold their own anywhere and be well versed in their mandate. He challenged PRODA to go back to its glorious days and nurture technological start-ups who will become future entrepreneurs in the country. He also appealed to the agencies to cooperate by sharing their experiences and expertise so as to ensure durable technological development of the country. Dr. Onu, who expressed satisfaction with the PRODA’s research progress on graphite, urged the management to encourage young, bright scientists in the organisation to come up with innovations that would benefit the country. He also commended the union leaders for their new positive disposition towards the management, saying that would augur well for good industrial relations. “I am happy that the union leaders themselves have testified to the cordial working relationship between them and the management,” he said and implored the unions to work for the common good of the nation. He also advised the agency not to leave equipment they bought with huge money to rot, but put them to good use. ‘’When equipment are installed and not used, they will rust or be overtaken by new ones’’, he added. Weighed down by 17 agencies, science ministry goes for more Why we organised Enugu EXPO 2019, Onu explains FG to assess relevance of agencies’ researches, innovations Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.