The House of Representatives has called on the management of the University of Maiduguri to halt the increase in tuition fees. Adopting a motion by the Chief Whip of the House, Mohammed Tahir Monguno, the House mandated its Committee on Tertiary Education and Services to engage the management of the university to stay action on the increment to enable it carry out an investigation on the matter. Moving the motion, Monguno, representing Monguno/Marte/Nganzi Federal Constituency in Borno State, said the university recently increased its fees from 40% to almost 400% even though the people of Borno State were being ravaged by the Boko Haram insurgency. “For instance, the tuition fee of medical students which was formerly N37,000 has risen to N149, 000. The institution also introduced a bench fee of N7000 which was non-existent. This means that the students would pay for every desk used,” he said. The lawmaker added that the university also increased fees for collection of certificates, identity cards and hostel. The House noted that the increase in fees was arbitrary and would discourage Nigerians, especially people of the Northeast from going to school and force many students out. According to the motion, irrespective of the justification that may be attached to the hike, including supposed peculiar operational and managerial realities of the university, it would be a cause of concern to every well-meaning Nigerian. “Half of the men in Northeast Nigeria have received no education at all, and this figure rises to over 61% for women, it is imperative that schooling in the Northeast remains a strategic national interest with overwhelming national security importance,” it added. Members that contributed to the debate on the motion lamented the arbitrary increase in tuition fees by Nigerian higher institutions, adding that many parents would be discouraged from sending their wards to schools, especially with the current economic situation in the country. Senate directs UNIMAID to suspend fee hike for students Kwara university authorities deny increasing school fees Senate directs University of Maiduguri to halt increment in tuition fees Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.