There was panic yesterday when a Lagos-Abuja bound Boeing 737 aircraft with registration number JQ2324 operated by Azman Air made a u-turn because of shisha smoke. It was learnt that the aircraft with 120 passengers had to make a return 10 minutes into the flight after smoke detector alerted the crew who rushed to put off the smoke. The incident happened around 4 pm, it was learnt. A female passenger was said to have smoked the Shisha in the lavatory of the aircraft and few minutes to take off the toilet was engulfed in fire causing pandemonium in the aircraft. One of the passengers said: “The female passenger was caught by a member of the cabin crew who politely stopped her, telling her it was a non-smoking aircraft but five minutes after, smoke erupted from the lavatory, forcing the pilot to make an air return.” The pilot had to return to the Murtala Muhammed Airport domestic terminal when the attempt by the cabin crew to extinguish the fire was not successful. The aircraft however landed safely at the airport while fire trucks were mobilised to put off the smoke entirely. The lady was arrested immediately and handed over to the police. After the incident, the pilot in command reportedly requested for a comprehensive audit to ensure the aircraft could still fly. CEO of  Payporte, Eyo Bassey, was said to be one of the passengers on board. The spokesman of Airport Police Command, Joseph Alabi, promised to find out about the incident from the Divisional Police Officer of local airport and get back to our correspondent. Panic as Azman Air’s Lagos-PH-bound flight makes emergency landing Panic as Azman aircraft fails to land in Kano Associated Airlines crash...13 killed, Agagu’s son, 6 others survive Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.