Additional sum of $13,370,500 has been invested by Tiamin Rice Mill Limited to raise its production capacity from the current 320 tonnes to 1,520 tonnes per day, the Managing Director of the company Aminu Ahmed has said. Mr Ahmed disclosed this yesterday when he led the management team of the company on a courtesy call on the Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Abhay Thakur, in his office in Abuja. The MD said the policy of the present administration, especially the ban on smuggling and the interventions given to them by the Central Bank of Nigeria, have helped immensely in boosting local production of rice. He revealed that the company was established in 2016 in Kano and started production of rice in 2018 with 320 tonnes per day. Mr Ahmed disclosed that the existing production line in Kano would be expanded from 320 tonnes to 920 tonnes next year, while a new production line would start production of 600 tonnes per day in Bauchi by May 2020. “We are now investing $13,370,500 to boost our production capacity to 1,520 tonnes per day. Already we have placed orders for all the machinery needed, and all arrangements are on top gear to meet the deadline we have set. “By next year, we plan to become the biggest rice producers not only in Kano but in the whole country. “Our watchword is quality and affordability. We produce one of the finest brands in Nigeria that can compete with foreign rice brands in terms of quality,” Mr Ahmed said. He appreciated the relative durability of Indian machines which, he said, are the secret behind the quality of Tiamin Rice. The managing director then thanked the Indian High Commission for its support and sought further cooperation in the areas of easing trade relations between his company and Indian partners. In his response, the high commissioner thanked Tiamin Rice for the courtesy call, expressing delight and appreciation for patronising Indian machines. Mr Thakur expressed hope that the policy of boosting local production would be sustained beyond the present administration to enable local industries in the country to grow. Briefing journalists after the visit, the Managing Director of Tiamin Rice commended the federal government for supporting local rice production and the state governments for giving them enabling environments. Border closure: Kano industrialist lauds FG, urges more support for local rice farmers Rice: Kano-based miller targets 500 tonnes daily production by June Inside Olam Rice Farm Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.