Retired Colonel Aminu Isah Kontagora is a former military administrator of Kano and Benue states. The chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Niger State, in this exclusive interview, spoke on the performance of the electoral body, the 2019 general elections and the chances of the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar at the tribunal. Why was the PDP defeated again in Niger State despite being a key stakeholder? We tried our best in Niger State. We introduced a new dynamics into the politics of Niger State by campaigning from ward to ward, house to house, which was hitherto not happening. We forced the ruling APC to adopt some methods. We were able to gain the sympathy of the populace. I will say we didn’t lose the election to the party in power, but we lost to the authorities in power. The antecedents of what happened in the polling units testified to what I’m saying about the general elections. Some of the contestants are in court. I wish them the best of luck. So, what is your assessment of the 2019 general elections from what you have just said? The outcome of 2019 elections came as a disappointment to so many good loving people of Nigeria. A good number of us were expecting a better performance or an improvement of what we got in 2015. But unfortunately, the election authority, that is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), left us with so many inconclusive elections that it has now become a vocabulary in the Nigerian context. We were also expecting fairness in the conduct of the general elections. It didn’t materialize. It also showed either the voters’ lists in most states are wrong or there might have been a vote suppression exercise. And I don’t think we should celebrate as a country. We should begin to apply a minimum level of vote or percentage below which you are not qualified to say you have won election. Let me give you an example; a state boasting to have 1.8 million voters on its register has its governor winning the election with 300,000 or 400,000 votes. Even in WAEC, it’s a failure. If you know we have false names, let’s clean them up so that we know exact voters’ number. INEC told us that we have 81 million registered voters. How many people voted? Less than 30 million voted. That is below 40 percent. That is less than 40 percent is the total number of votes. So, the winner of that election has 5 million votes. You can look at that percentage to the number of registered voters. And what percentage of the total population is that? If you have 15 million votes out of 180 million Nigerians, are you truly their representative? So, let us look into that aspect of the process of election – voters’ register and required votes to qualify. We concentrate on spread with simple majority. No, there should be a minimum percentage of voter turnout so that politicians can work harder, not spend harder. What they did was that most of them didn’t campaign seriously. They just waited until the election day with somebody at the corner paying for votes. So, let us see if you must pay like 60 million Nigerians to vote for you. I know you must go and earn so much money. But you can bring in 60 million Nigerians to vote if you have a good programme. We must look into that system. Apart from that, it was okay and peaceful. It ended up being peaceful. But we saw that it was actually not a willing voting. It was an inducement voting in most of the elections. So, you start wondering when a poor man will qualify to stand for elections in Nigeria when he doesn’t have anything to induce anybody. There is a problem and we need to look into it. What are the chances of your party at the presidential election petition tribunal? We have confidence. Atiku will make it. We have that confidence. Why are you so confident? Because the PDP worked hard. It’s very unusual of the PDP. They worked very hard in that election and that was why we still stand our ground that we won that election. Even a layman should know that there is a problem in the results as they were being pronounced.  In 2015, the total number of votes cast in Akwa Ibom was a million plus. You are telling us now that it is difficult for people to campaign now. That the total votes cast are 600,000. Where did they go? You can take Delta votes. You can even take Kano votes. Why should the two candidates for the governorship election in Kano get twice the number of votes everybody got at presidential election? Something is wrong.  So, we are very hopeful we will make it. Atiku is coming. Why are non-state actors dictating the pace in the country? Bandits and others are dictating the pace. They decide where to punch. I know that is an insurgency principle. But we should try as much as possible to contain the situation. Recently, people are already demonstrating and agitating. In short, I had a clip where people are now saying that they don’t need the police and the army. They want to take laws into their hands to protect themselves. We may be worsening our security situation. Let us not get to the stage where the public will completely lose hope with the authorities to secure them. We are heading towards that. But we should try as much as possible to contain the insecurity situation so that confidence can be returned to the state. To Atiku, an open letter Niger State 2015 governorship race: a prognosis 2011: Kwara political  parties talk tough Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin