Some residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have called on the Federal Government to improve on security in parts of the country, as it marked the maiden June 12 Democracy Day. June 12  has  now replaced May 29 as Democracy Day in Nigeria, after  President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the Public Holidays Act Amendment Bill. The residents made the call in separate interviews with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Abuja. They called on the Federal Government to also give attention to other sectors such as the economy, infrastructural development and job creation among others. Mrs Agnes Clement, a trader, said the issue of security in any nation could not be over-emphasised, adding that one of the benefits of a secured country was the attraction of foreign investors. She thanked President Buhari for his renewed efforts to tackle insecurity in the country and expressed optimism that Nigeria would overcome the menace. “I believe that by the grace of God, Nigeria will surmount the security challenges confronting the country,’’ she said. On his part, Mr Kenneth Ijachi, a civil servant, also expressed concern about insecurity in the country, and urged the Federal Government to take proactive steps to ensure that lives and property were secured. Miss Joyce Okolo, a teacher, expressed optimism that very soon the issue of insecurity in the country would be a thing of the past. On recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day, Mr Ezekiel Bala,  a businessman, commended President Buhari  for recognising June 12  as  democracy day in the country. According to him, “June 12 is a factor that united Nigerians and we should build on it.” Bala called on Nigerians to make use of the opportunity to move the nation forward, saying “June 12  is a sign of freedom for all Nigerians and foundation of our democracy.’’ (NAN)  FCT perm-sec urges Muslims to pray for Buhari Eid-el Fitr: FCTA, police assure residents on security JUST IN: Nigeria declares Public Holiday to mark Democracy Day Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin