Over 100 persons including politicians, academicians and professionals are jostling for various slots of commissioners in Kano state, Daily Trust learnt. Daily Trust gathered that the politicians who are jostling for the posts are from different political camps including that of the former governor of the state, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, former Deputy Governor of the state, Professor Hafiz Abubakar and former Commissioner of Land and Survey under Dr Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso’s regime, Architect Aminu Dabo. A source close to the state government confided in Daily Trust that only 40 percent of former commissioners were expected to return to their positions. The source, who craved for anonymity, said 60 percent of the former commissioners would not return due to their poor performances in first tenure of governor Ganduje-led administration. He, however, said governor Ganduje was marking his time in order to make best choice for the state, noting that the governor had laid down criteria for the selection of the new set of commissioners. “Part of the criteria lay down for selection of the new set of commissioners includes track records, performance, absolute loyalty, commitment, knowledge and intellectual capacity. “Any person that fails to meet these qualities would not be appointed commissioner. This time around, the governor is very serious about the quality of the people he is going work with as commissioners,” said the source. The source added that the governor would also give priority to women in the next appointment of commissioners, saying more women would be appointed commissioners in the state. He said the recent appointment of 11 women as permanent secretaries was a pointer that more women would be appointed commissioners in the second term of Ganduje-led administration. He said some notable women who excelled in various field of human endeavours had been pencilled down for appointment of commissioners. The source added that the governor had promised to carry everybody along during his second tenure as governor. ‘Only 40 percent of Kano former commissioners will return’ Kwankwaso, Ganduje factions disagree on peace terms Kano: PDP’s troubles dwarf Ganduje’s fears Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin