The Alhaji Hadi Ametuo led group has resolved to work with the current Kogi state’s executives of the All Progressives Congress, APC,  headed by Hon Abdullahi Bello ahead of the November 16 gubernatorial election in the state. The resolution was made at a reconciliatory meeting chaired by Governor Yahaya Bello at the Kogi State Governor’s Lodge in Abuja on Saturday to harmonize the two groups. The governor in his remarks appreciated Hadi Ametuo and his group. He commended the decision of the Hadi group for supporting the reconciliation move, according to a statement from the media office of the governor. Gov. Bello also assured the group that there were lots of benefits aside the three demands they had put forward and he will ensure they benefits from the party. Ametuo, who commended the governor for leading the party to victory during the 2019 general elections, said the group had only three requests which include; payment of arrears of monthly allowances of the former excos,  harmonisation of party structure from the state to ward level as well as accommodation of some members of his group and appointment of his members into positions in government. In his opening remarks, the Chairman of the party, Hon Abdullahi Bello said the meeting was called at the instance of the governor to bring the groups together for discussions and resolution of their grievances. He said Hadi Ametuo has shown great support and cooperation towards resolving the crisis within the party. The spokesman of the governor, Kingsley Fanwo said Alh. Yahaya Bello is committed to ensuring peace in the party. He said none of the returning members will be discriminated against. “The Governor expressed strong commitment to incorporate the returning members into the scheme of things in his government and the party and thanked the Hadi Ametuo-led Group for committing to reconciliation and his re-election”, he said. Kogi: Bello tackles APC group over 2nd term bid Kogi: Bello not leaving APC — Stakeholders Kogi: Top contenders to ‘battle’  Gov Bello Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin