The Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority, NIWA, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Nigeria Export-Import Bank, NEXIM, and SEALINK Promotional Co. Ltd to boost inland water transportation in the country. A statement by NIWA’s General Manager, Public Affairs, Tayo Fadile, on Monday, in Lokoja said the tripartite MoU signing was a deliberate attempt to bridge the infrastructure gap and provide an alternative mode of transportation for evacuation of economic goods and persons on the nation’s Inland waterways. He said the Managing Director of NIWA, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora; the MD of NEXIM Bank, Mr Abba Bello and Chairman of Sealinks, Mrs Damley Shallholma signed the tripartite agreement in Abuja at the weekend. “NIWA is delighted to partner with NEXIM and SEALINK promotional company and its strategic Consortium partners in the facilitation of bulk cargo movement on inland waterways and promoting hinterland and transit trade. “The MoU will hopefully encourage efficient transportation system in line with global best practices that is safe, seamless and affordable. It will also support River Port Development, and modernization of existing NIWA facilities across the nation. “Finally, the MoU will support the survey, underwater engineering works, removable and disposal of wrecks among several other projects geared towards improving and developing inland waterways navigation. “By the time the MoU is fully implemented, Nigeria’s Inland Waterways will never be the same. This is good news to all stakeholders on Nigerian Inland Waterways”, Fadile said in the statement. NEXIM, others sign pact on water transport NEXIM Bank signs $302,000 deal with AfDB Harnessing Nigeria’s waterways for economic development Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin