The North- West Peace and Reconciliation Network has hailed the Nigerian Army over its efforts towards returning peace and sanity to Katsina and Zamfara State and their environs. The group, which is the umbrella organization for promoting peaceful coexistence and tolerance in Katsina State, Zamfara State, specifically commended the troops of the Nigerian Army for their tireless efforts in ensuring sustainable peace and tranquility across the North-West and the nation at large. Comrade Danladi Ali, National Chairman of the northern group said they were impressed with Operation Harbin Kunama in the style and strategies that it has deployed to address the challenges bedeviling the land in line with the Chief of Army Staff vision and deem it necessary to commend the Nigerian Army in order to sustain the tempo. According to him, the operations of the Nigerian Army in these states and its environs have seen to the restoration of peace in communities that were hitherto hotbeds for bandits and cattle rustlers and kidnappers. The group charged the troops of the Nigerian Army not to relent on their efforts in making Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara States and its environs free from bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers. “The North-West Peace and Reconciliation Network wishes to state that contrary to insinuations in certain quarters that the security agencies are not doing enough, indeed the Nigerian Army has commenced clearance and resettlement of IDPs back to their former communities. The recent arrest of a notorious bandit/kidnapping kingpin and 20 others during operations around Batsari, Jibia and Safana Local Government Areas of Katsina State by troops of 17 Brigade on Operation HARBIN KUNAMA III is indeed a testament of the tireless efforts of the Nigerian Army in ensuring that the activities of bandits and kidnappers are reduced to the barest minimum,” it said. The war against banditry and the Buratai winning formula Traditional rulers colluding with bandits – FG Kidnapping: Traditional rulers collaborating with bandits - Defence Minister Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin