Providing valuable services to motorist, the Ikoku auto parts market could also be a concern to inferior components and traffic nuisance.  The multi billion naira Ikoku Automobile Spare Parts Market located at the ever busy Ikoku Street has a tale of good and ugly stories. The market rated as the biggest spare parts market in Rivers State and beyond, is a harbinger of all kinds of automobile business. It is divided into different sections such as those that deal on all kinds of light vehicle parts and another that deals on heavy duty vehicle parts. There is another area of the market that deals with automobile accessories such as lubricants, electrical parts, paints, batteries, security gadgets and tyres. There are those that sell second hand spare parts popularly known as “Belgium” and others that trade in original parts imported directly from mostly Asian countries.  One familiar feature of Ikoku market is itinerant automobile mechanics who claim to have possessed all the expertise required to fix a faulty vehicle. This category of persons have no fixed spot but loiter the market scouting for prospective customers that have a faulty vehicles to fix. The people that fall into this category are young boys in their late 20s that have undergone apprenticeship in automobile repairs but do not have the requisite capital to start their business. This group of persons armed with their tools move around the facility to look for vehicle owners to buy spare parts and solicit for jobs. Emeka Ani is one of such itinerant automobile mechanics at Ikoku market. He told Daily Trust on Sunday about his daily routine in the market. “I was trained to fix Japanese cars, going through four years apprenticeship. Having completed training, I was not able to buy the requisite starter packs to enable me take-off. We come out every morning to look for those that have faulty vehicles,” he said. Emeka said he makes an average of N4,000 in a day when business is good. Another itinerant automobile mechanic, Michael Ikenmadu said it is less expensive to operate without workshop. “When I finished my apprenticeship I couldn’t raise money to open a workshop. I had no option than to come here and scout for customers. It is less expensive to operate without a shop. Many people come here to buy parts to fix their vehicles. Whenever we come across any one we try to convince them that we have the capacity to fix the car and we go ahead to do that,” he said. A motorist, John Ogan has a contrary view on the activities of itinerant mechanics at Ikoku. Ogan told Daily Trust on Sunday how a mobile mechanic further damaged the engine of his vehicle. “I came here to buy spare parts. As I was approaching, one boy accosted me and claimed that he is an experienced mechanic. I believed him but by the time he finished working on the engine   the vehicle completely packed-up. I had to take the vehicle to another workshop where it was fixed,” he said. One of the ugly sides of Ikoku market is the selling of sub-standard materials. A motorist, Uche Okey told our correspondent how an inferior part sold to him damaged his car. “I went there to buy engine rings for my Mercedes Benz. After fixing it, the vehicle couldn’t start and was making a terrible noise. The mechanic had to remove the ring and it was discovered that it was a refurbished one. Since then, I stopped buying parts from the market,” he said. Besides, the location of the market has raised concern among residents and those who ply the route as the activities of traders cause major vehicular traffic. Motorists are held up for hours along the route. The menace and nuisance constituted by traders on the road prompted Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike to order its reallocation. A resident of Ikoku who pleaded anonymity said that the location of the market made it difficult for residents to move about freely. He said that the location violates the beauty of Port Harcourt. The governor on assumption of office in 2015 awarded contract for the construction of a spare parts market along Aba-Port Harcourt road. The contract valued at N15billion was expected to be completed within six months but it is yet to commence. Governor Wike at the groundbreaking ceremony of the market then said that the construction of an Ultra-Modern Spare Parts Dealers and Automobile Technicians’ Complex in the state was a manifestation of government’s on-going efforts towards achieving organized development of the state. The governor noted at the event that since the creation of the state in 1967, the spare parts dealers and auto technicians have operated haphazardly in unplanned locations and certain sections around the Port Harcourt metropolis and its environs like Ikoku and Olu-Obasanjo Road, thereby hindering development of the areas. While acknowledging the value of service they provided towards the commercial viability of the state, the  governor said the market has become a source of worry to residents and visitors who share in the vision of making Port Harcourt one of the functional cities in the country. On the whole, while traders in the market smile to the bank, the nuisance the facility constitute to motorists and residents have become a source of worry.  PAN’s revival success Owode Onirin: A mass of garbage or wealth? Life inside ‘Bola’, a refuse dump turned Maiduguri’s auto village Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin