With the launch of Meter Assets Providers (MAP), Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), prof. James Momoh has vowed to close the 5.046 million metering gap within three years. Speaking in Lagos at the graduation of 38 first set of meter installers from MOMAS Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL) School, he noted that metering is of great concern to the commission and the Federal Government. Represented by the Deputy General Manager, Consumer Affairs, Shittu Shuaibu, the NERC Chairman said, “Data available to the commission indicates that the present metering gap in Nigeria as at April 2019, is about 5.046 million when compared to total consumer of 8.840m, representing 57 per cent deficit in metering. “This is a challenge and a marvelous opportunity. It is expected that the present metering gap would be closed within the next three years with the effective implementation of the Discos meter roll out plan under MAP scheme,” he said. He lauded MEMMCOL for playing a key role in developing technological capacity and world class assembly and manufacturing plant for metering in Nigeria. He urged the graduands to be awake to the enormous responsibility in the sector. MOMAS Chairman, Mr Kola Balogun said the graduation was an attestation of its commitment to address the challenges confronting manpower deficiencies in the nation’s downstream electricity sector values chains. “We make bold to say that we are the only indigenous meter manufacturing company that can boast of 100 per cent local content in the design and manufacturing of our world-class standard electricity meters of various types for the Nigerian market,” he said. Balogun added that the training curriculum is richly designed to transform the life of the students and provides the necessary education for consumers for the sustainability of the sector. NERC grants metering permit to 69 firms DisCos get FG’s final approval to sell meter at N37,000 NERC warns discos against over-billing Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin