Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, yesterday called for an end to banditry, saying it would be unfortunate for people who voted wholeheartedly for President Muhammadu Buhari to be allowed to be killed unnecessarily by bandits. Speaking in Katsina during a visit to some victims of bandits attacks who are taking refuge in Dakin Baki area of Katsina city, Aisha said people must speak out as the killings were worrisome and that if not tackled they could end up consuming everyone. Reports say there are 25,988 internally displaced persons taking refuge at various camps in eight local government areas of Katsina State due to incessant attacks by bandits A breakdown of the figure as released by the State Emergency Management Agency showed that in Katsina local government, there are 1,707; Batsari, 18,544, Kurfi, 135, Faskari, 1,440, Kankara, 2,426,  Danmusa, 513, Jibia – 616, and Safana, 607. She said: “When the Katsina SSG spoke out, I sent it to all security outfits in the country. I told them it’s either they go and help out or allow us all to be killed”. “It is a must for people to come out and speak. Anything that is not right; people should say it, no matter what,” she said. “Commenting on the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programme (SIP), the President’s wife said, “My husband was the first to talk about people not getting the N10,000 palliatives. He asked people who didn’t get to speak out. It’s not Aisha but the President that said so.” In his remarks, the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumin Usman, who spoke through the Magajin Garin Katsina, Aminu Abdulmumini, said people needed peace to be able to return to their farms. Later at Batsari, Aisha noted that people of the state were in dire need of the SIP. The pet project of the President’s wife, Future Assured, distributed food items and clothing to the victims. Aisha said she was in the state to sympathise with the victims and show concern over the activities of bandits who have made life unbearable for the locals. One of the victims, who spoke on behalf of the IDPs,  Fatima Maiwaina Kasai, demanded their share of the N10,000 being distributed by the Federal Government as support to women and the less privileged. In her response, Aisha said the President had made available N500 billion under the Social Investment Programme. “At this juncture we are calling on the social investment programme to rush to Katsina and help them with the N10,000; they are really in need. “This is a state where we got 1.2 million votes free of charge. We did not pay anybody to vote for us; they voted for us out of trust and they need to be taken care of. Whatever that is due to them, they need to get it. We don’t need to fight for it,” she said. Speaking, the state Executive Secretary of SEMA, Babangida Nasamu, said in Batsari LGA, about 28 villages were sacked. According to him, the state government is doing all it can to support the victims, adding, “NEMA and the national refugee commission must step in to support. They have in the past supported us but we need them now more than ever. “We wrote to them and are waiting for them to come and support us as the burden is too much”.  Ba Beli: A notorious killer gang pushing Bauchi towards the cliff Gunmen kill 96 in Katsina I was misinterpreted by political opponents –Shema Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin