The Electoral Act Amendment, the constitution amendment bills, and the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) are among the many bills likely to face fresh legislative action as the 9th National Assembly gets ready for business, Daily Trust reports. The three bills, passed by both chambers of the 8th National Assembly, were rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari more than once, prompting the now-rested legislature to rework on them but to no avail. But while the constitution amendment bill, which contained several other bills, will go through a whole new process, the two other bills alongside 45 others rejected by the president may enjoy some waivers. Some lawmakers told Daily Trust last night that the rejected bills and even those that got stuck at the committees’ level are most likely to be reconsidered, passed and send to the president. Sen Ahmad Babba Kaita (APC, Katsina) said it is automatic for bills to be reconsidered by the next Assembly when they were not signed into law or the previous parliament could not conclude work on them. “It’s automatic. If a bill got stuck, of course it will be revisited. So, pending bills will be dusted and worked on once again,” he said. Asked if the bills would go through new process, Kaita said while some may not go through all the processes once again, others would have to go all over again in view of new realities. Kaita, who had previously served in the House of Representatives before moving to the Senate last year, said: “There are bills that will just be passed as they are, but others will have to be subjected to the processes again because of new developments.” A member of PDP in the House of Representatives from Rivers State, Kin‎gsley Chinda, who is a third term lawmaker, told Daily Trust last night that they would definitely revisit some of the bills. However, he said, some of the bills may not have to go through the long process of public hearing but would be subjected to the Committee of Whole for consideration. “We’ll definitely revisit them. All the bills rejected, what we do is maybe by way of a motion we’ll bring them back and take them at the Committee of the Whole so that we don’t need to go through public hearing again to save cost and time and send them back to the president. “The PIGB and Electoral Act will fall under this. But the constitution amendment will go through the normal processes again,” he said. Another returning member of the House of Representatives told Daily Trust in Abuja last night that they would revisit some of the bills, especially those on the Electoral Act, the PIGB and the constitution amendment. “Of course we’re going to revisit most of the bills, if not all of them. But specifically, we’ll give bills on constitution amendment, Electoral Act and the PIGB. “If you look at the body language of the Senate President and the Speaker, they’re really ready for the job. They want Nigerians to get the best out of the National Assembly, so we’ll face those three bills once again. “Let me say this. The three bills have become a recurring decimal for the past years in the National Assembly, and there’s no way you’ll have an assembly that won’t attempt to amend the constitution and the Electoral Act in order to face new realities,” the lawmaker, who wished to remain anonymous said. Asked if the bills would have to go through all the processes of lawmaking having being passed in the past, the lawmaker said: “That’s the normal legislative practice, but we may have to provide waivers where there are no changes. “But what will happen is that in the case of the PIGB and the Electoral Act, I think all we need to do is to work with the observations made by the president last time and fast-track their passage. That won’t take time since it will be between the National Assembly and the Executive arm. “In the case of constitution amendment, it will take time because of the process as enshrined in the constitution itself. We can’t just pass it and send to the president; it has to go to the state assemblies and return to us for further action. So, it’s really a tedious process.” Yet another lawmaker told Daily Trust that, “it is natural for us to revisit the rejected bills. We may not have much problem since it is the same president we’re dealing with, and a good number of us returning members know what his observations were. “I believe this time around, we won’t have much delays in passing the bills since they’re still fresh to us,” he said. The number of bills rejected by the president kept growing up from about 16 late last year to around 40 as at the close of legislative business of the 8th Assembly. However, the president also assented to many of the bills transmitted to him by the past Assembly. Based on legislative practice, any bill that does not get the assent of the president up to the end of a particular Assembly will have to face fresh legislative action when a new Assembly is inaugurated. Our correspondent reports that a bill goes through three stages: first reading, second reading and third reading. Depending on the seriousness and the speed with which the lawmakers apply to a bill, it may take as long as two years before passage, while in some cases a bill may take less than a month. Members of the 8th Assembly passed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill in March last year where they attempted to tinker with the election sequence in the country, making the governorship and state assemblies elections to be first in the series, followed by the National Assembly election, while presidential election would come last. But Buhari declined assent to the bill alongside the PIGB the 8th National Assembly passed. Giving reasons for rejecting the Electoral Act amendment bill last year, Buhari said there were some drafting issues that may affect the interpretation and application of the Principal Act. In addition, the president said, some of the proposed amendments may adversely affect the operation of elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). As for the second Electoral Act amendment bill, the president said it had the unintended consequence of leaving INEC with only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates and political parties as well as manage the primaries of 91 political parties for the various elections. Other reasons Buhari gave for declining assent to some of the bills were duplication of responsibilities of existing agencies, financial constraints, violation of extant laws, to lack of consultation with relevant stakeholders. Buhari had also expressed reservation with some responsibilities of the Petroleum Regulatory Commission. Other bills Buhari rejected included the Chartered Institute of Training and Development Establishment Bill 2018, the Nigerian Aeronautic Research Bill 2018,the National Institute of Credit Administration Bill 2018, the National Housing Fund Bill 2018, the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria Bill 2018, the National Biotechnology Development Agency of Nigeria Bill 2018,Ajaokuta Steel Company Completion Fund Bill, 2018 and the SME Development Agency Bill, 2018. In March, Buhari declined assent to six bills, namely the Nigerian Film Commission Bill, Immigration Amendment Bill, Climate Change Bill, Chartered Institute of Pension Practitioners Bill, Digital Rights and Freedom Bill, and National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency Act (Amendment) Bill, all dated 2018. Also in January, the president declined assent to five bills, including the Revenue Mobilization Bill, Allocation and Fiscal Commission Amendment Bill (RMAFC), Bankruptcy and Insolvency Bill 2018, Federal Polytechnic Amendment Bill, Maritime Security Operations Coordinating Board Amendment Bill, and Energy Commission Amendment Bill, all dated 2018. Previously, President Buhari had rejected the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, Stamp Duties (Amendment) Bill, Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) (Amendment) Bill, National Research and Innovation Council (Est.) Bill, National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (Est.) Bill and National Agricultural Seeds Council Bill. Others are Chartered Institute of Entrepreneurship (Est.) Bill, Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences (Amendment) Bill, Subsidiary Legislation (Legislative Scrutiny) Bill, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (Amendment) Bill as well as five constitution amendment bills. Also rejected were National Transport Commission Bill, Federal Road Authority (Establishment) Bill, National Broadcasting Commission Amendment Bill, National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) Act (Amendment) Bill, and Federal Polytechnics Act (Amendment) Bill. Senate passes PIGB, electoral act again Senate raises panel over  16 bills rejected by Buhari Enang keeps mute as Buhari declines assent on Electoral Act Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin