The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has denied recent reports that it will attack the five South Eastern states of the country because of alleged  stubbornness of their governors. The chairman of the group in the South East, Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, who briefed journalists in Awkam during the Eid prayer to mark the end of Muslim fasting, said the reports, which quoted him to have said that states of the South East zone would be attacked by herders were blatant falsehood. “Few days ago, we woke up to a malicious publication in a social media platform purporting a phantom statement in Abuja entitled ‘South East will Boil Any Moment from Now Because of their Stubbornness’ ascribed to the leadership of MACBAN. “My mission here is simply to expose the lie in the mischievous publication. First, while it is my wish to inform the public that Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria did not make any statement to the effect of the content of the publication either in Abuja or anywhere for that matter, I humbly would wish to correctly place my designation as the chairman of the South East Zone of the association,” he said. He said his group always had warm relationship with the five south eastern governors, just as their host communities had also been in good relationship with them, despite few squabbles that were immediately settled. “Again, I wish to put it on record that the South East Zone of the MACBAN and its cattle herders, whom I serve as the zonal chairman, enjoy warm relationship with the governors, governments and people of South East Nigeria. “I wish to state that this warm relationship has not been completely devoid of flashes of momentary conflicts at few locations. Such instances were however promptly addressed by the authorities and warm communality restored amongst the people. “Given the increasing orientation and reorientation of our people and the locals who are our landlords here, and given the strong commitment of the state governors to peaceful relationship across board, one harbours no doubts that the relationship between our herders and their landlords can only be increasingly better as time progresses. “It is, therefore my intention while dispelling the published rumour from the pit of malicious mischief, to share my upbeat spirit with all of us. It is my utmost belief that the sincere and committed understanding we all propagate today will yield us minimal rancour if not rancour free society tomorrow,” he stated. Miyetti Allah denies making inflammatory comment on Southeast Plateau killings: Miyetti Allah tasks government on lasting peace in the region We can’t meddle in the affair of politicians, says Miyetti Allah Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin