From Yusha’u A. Ibtahim, Kano The Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi ll, yesterday responded to the query issued to him by the Kano State government over alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered. The emir, in his reply signed by Alhaji Abba Yusuf, secretary to the Kano State Emirate Council, said he met only N1.8 billion in the emirate’s coffers when he ascended the throne, after the death of the former Emir, Alhaji Ado Bayero. The state government had issued a query to the emir on Thursday and given him 48 hours to respond.  The response came a few hours to the expiration of the period. The query was based on the report of its anti-graft agency, which accused the Emir and four other staff of the Kano Emirate council of misappropriating of N3.4 billion. In its response, the Emirate Council said, “at the time His Highness was appointed Sarkin Kano, the exact amount in the accounts of the Kano emirate council was N1,893,378,927.38. “It is important to note that His Highness is not the accounting officer of the Kano Emirate Council, but the Secretary of the Council.” Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that the Emir, in the letter, also thanked the Kano State government for giving him the opportunity to respond to the allegations contained in the report by the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission. Meanwhile, efforts are on to reconcile the emir and the governor. On Friday evening, it was gathered that some eminent personalities, including business mogul Alhaji Aliko Dangote and the Chairman of Nigeria’s Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, had initiated a reconciliation process.  It was learnt that Emir Sanusi left the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) Thursday evening for Abuja for the meeting. The Emir was accompanied by many district heads. A statement signed by the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, confirmed the development but added that no agreement had been reached.  As at Saturday evening, it was gathered that the dialogue was still on-going.  The relationship between the governor and the Emir in recent time has been anything but palatable. The problem between the two got to a head weeks ago with the balkanisation of the emirate council by the governor, thereby whittling down Emir Sanusi’s powers.  BREAKING: N3.4bn fraud: Kano Emirate Council confirms receipt of query JUST IN: Finally, Emir Sanusi replies Governor Ganduje's query 5 years after Ado Bayero: So many changes in Kano Emirate Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin