The Nigerian Legion of Corps of Commissionaires (CNC) at the weekend graduated 295 cadets in Benue State who are now set to compliment the armed forces security architecture in general security surveillance and information generation. Commandant General of the Nigerian Legion, Brig-Gen. Jones Akpa (rtd), who made the remark during the graduation ceremony of the 295 cadets of Course 1, 2019 trained at the 72 Special Force Battalion of the Nigerian Army in Makurdi, said the idea was a civic responsibility necessary for sound national development. Akpa explained that the CNC is an unarmed security outfit enabled by the Legion Act No. 37 of 1988 and consisting of still agile, fit, available and willing veterans of ex-service men to complement the efforts of existing law enforcement agencies to provide  cover for private corporate organisations and individuals via such services in schools crime prevention, disaster management, mounting of surveillance at private facilities as well. In his speech, Governor Samuel Ortom, who is the state’s patron of CNC, disclosed his administration interest to partner with the Nigerian Legion Corps of Commissionaires for improved security in the state. Ortom who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the State’s Ministry of Finance, Matthew Uyina, said his administration would also give logistics support to the security outfit in order to complement the regular security agencies in the state. “The state government would be ready to partner with any security outfit such as this one. We’re impressed. The parade puts up a very sound show. I therefore appeal to the organised and non-organised sector to employ the services of the legion,” the governor said. Earlier, in his welcome address, the Benue State Commandant and also North-Central Corps Coordinator of the Nigerian Legion, Dickson Thomas, said the graduates are well equipped, to discharged their duties if given opportunities as he thanked the Army in Makurdi for the refresher training and update of the CNC on military regimentation, cultures and social etiquette. Benue govt’ to partner Nigerian legion on security Emir urges Nigerian Legion to assist FG fight insurgency, other security challenges Nigerian Legion seeks involvement in fight against Boko Haram Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin