Cyprian Oyom Igban is a seasoned technocrat and engineer. In this interview, the indigene of Obubra, Cross River State who described himself as a progressive, speaks on the performance of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, Cross River politics and other issues. Excerpts: President Buhari took the oath of office for a second term on May 29, what is your impression on the performance of the administration in the last four years? In four years, the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has achieved so much; far beyond the expectations of Nigerians. Let me state without any fear of contradiction that no other administration in Nigeria’s history as an independent country achieved more than what the Buhari administration has so far achieved since it came to power in 2015. And that is just within its first four years in office. You can imagine where we will be as a country when this administration completes its second and final term in 2023. Can you pinpoint some of the achievements? The Buhari administration’s achievements are many and open for any objective analyst to see. This is the first government that is fully committed to tackling the menace of corruption. If not for the coming of President Buhari in 2015, Nigeria would have crumbled under the yoke of corruption. The problem had reached a stage where governors, ministers and other political office holders overseeing public resources were appropriating the entire budget as their own personal money and not even the president of the country was bothered about that. Salaries could no longer be paid; projects were stalled; there was general decay in the midst of plenty all because a few people had cornered our collective patrimony. The situation was so bad and alarming. Nobody was being arrested or prosecuted for corruption. Even the sitting president declared publicly that stealing was not corruption. Haba! One man who I choose to call Mr. Integrity came on stage by the grace of God and put his life and personal welfare at stake to say no to corruption. That one man is President Muhammadu Buhari. He said enough is enough; he went after the rogues. He arrested many of them and forced some of them to vomit what they had stolen. He led by example and so it was possible for him to confront them without compromise. President Buhari is clean and unblemished. His type is rare to come by. He is the best and we are very lucky to have him as our leader at this time. The Buhari administration has also achieved a lot in the area of security of lives and property. He fought Boko Haram insurgents from all fronts and brought them to their knees. And in truth, one significant step forward by this administration is President Buhari’s drive to close Nigeria’s significant infrastructural deficit by completing abandoned projects. At the same time, he has strategically initiated and executed several new projects. Because President Buhari is not interested in praise singing or window shows, he has shunned white elephant projects while focusing on those projects that directly touch on the lives and wellbeing of majority of the people. Because President Buhari is not like the usual Nigerian politician who thrives on ego by abandoning projects started by their predecessors and embarking on new ones, he has been able to achieve so much in the area of infrastructure development. As at the time Buhari took over, there were over a thousand abandoned federal government projects. The projects comprised roads, healthcare, education, water resources, electricity power generation, housing and so on. They were spread across the country. Today, President Buhari has completed many of them and is set to complete more. How would you rate the prospects of APC in Cross River State and the South-south zone? The prospects are very bright. Don’t forget that before the recent general elections, APC had made appreciable inroads in the South-South and even the South East. In Cross River State where I hail from, we worked hard to ensure that the president deservedly garnered far above the requisite 25 percent votes in the presidential election. I delivered my Ovonum ward 100 percent during the presidential election. APC cleared all the 12 polling units in the ward in the presidential and National Assembly elections. But for the massive rigging by the PDP in the South-South zone, the figures for APC would have been far higher. But thank God, several influential and credible politicians in the zone are leaving PDP’s sinking ship for the APC thereby making our party more formidable. With all you have said so far, some people believe that the administration has failed… I can’t see any failure associated with this administration despite the mess left behind by PDP and the efforts of few unpatriotic elements to sabotage the efforts of the administration. All I can say is that like under even the best of administrations anytime, anywhere, the world over, there will always be room for improvement. By that I mean a kind of putting round pegs in round holes or squares pegs in square holes. You understand what I mean. What I’m saying is a kind of overhauling his team to bring on board more committed professionals and technocrats. Injection of fresh blood will bring more ginger, innovation and achievements. What is your view about the political alliance between President Buhari and former Lagos State governor Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu? The coming together of President Muhammadu Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was ordained by God. It was through the divine will of the Almighty Creator that they came together to rescue Nigeria from the stranglehold of corrupt and greedy leaders under the PDP. Quote me, under PDP, the country’s treasury was being looted dry by both elected and appointed officials. It was stealing galore. But thank God that is no longer possible because of Buhari. So, both of them are the best that Nigeria can boast of in terms of leadership presently. President Buhari is the best Nigerian president ever while Tinubu ranks next to him in political sagacity. Buhari has done well! Buhari’s three years of ‘good governance’ What Buhari will do in second term – Presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin