The Nigerian power sector will require $100 billion (about N36 trillion) in 20 years to guarantee 24 hour electricity supply to Nigerians. The Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) said this in a statement recently after a seminar on the Distribution Companies (DisCos) Performance Improvement plans (PIP) held in Abuja. Once approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), each DisCo´s PIP will help in the major tariff for the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) to be implemented in Year 2020. The PIP process will review present Capital Expenditure (CAPEX), inflation rate, gas price, foreign exchange rate, and energy generation figures to ensure cost reflective tariff that will provide improved power supply in the next five years, from Year 2020. ANED, citing a recently published study by the French Development Agency (AFD) and the European Union (EU), said the Nigerian power distribution sector would need to invest over $10bn (about N3.6trn) in the next five years to reach reasonable standards in quality of supply and service. This will be about $40bn (about N14.4trn) in the next 20 years from the $100bn for the entire value chain. “Indeed, NESI as a whole needs to invest more than USD 100 billion in the next 20 years if Nigeria wants to cover 24/7 hours of power supply to its citizens,” ANED noted. It further said TCN/DisCos’ interface project developed by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) projects that DisCos would have to invest $4.2bn (about N1.3trn) in the interface with the transmission network to follow TCN expansion plan. At the seminar, AFD, African Development Bank (AfDB), World Bank and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), along with DisCos’ private investors discussed collaboration strategies with DisCos to finance their PIPs in the short term. More than 150 individuals were in attendance, including 35 DisCo board members and 10 MD/CEOs.  Capitalisation: DisCos seek cost recovery means to drive investments After 41 months, NERC plans 5yr electricity tariff for 11 DisCos How bickering could worsen N1trn debt-ridden power sector Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin