Ogun State House of Assembly has passed a resolution, urging the State Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, to step up measures to stem illegal activities of land grabbers and cultists’ clashes in some parts of the state. The assembly also asked the police to curb activities of road transport unions over tension building on the leadership crisis in the state. This followed a motion moved by a member representing Obafemi Owode State Constituency, Hon. Soneye Kayode, seconded by his Remo North counterpart, Hon. Solomon Osho, and supported by other members through a voice vote, at a plenary session. The plenary which was presided over by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Olakunle Oluomo, equally called on the Governor of the state, Dapo Abiodun, to as a matter of urgency, intervene in the impeding security challenges occasioned by the activities of some unscrupulous individuals. Members in their separate submissions, reported ranges of issues including security lapses in their respective constituencies, calling on the security agencies to invoke relevant sections of the State Land Grabbing and Anti Kidnapping Law of 2016, with a view to strengthening security of lives and property in all parts of the State. Also, the Assembly had directed the Permanent Secretaries in the State Ministries of Works and Infrastructure, Environment and State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), to devise measures of assessing the level of damage done by the rainstorm and make recommendations to the state government, for the provision of succour and damage control. They also called for the implementation of more infrastructural projects, especially, rural development projects, including; construction and rehabilitation of rural roads, schools, modern health centers and electrification projects, amongst others.  Police parade 34 cultists, bandits in Anambra Go back to where you came from, new Ogun CP tells criminals Menace of cultism in schools Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin