Two persons have died while three others have been injured following a clash between Ikot Osute and Ikot Ukpong villages in Oruk Anam local government area of Akwa Ibom state over a love affair gone sour. It was gathered that one Ms Ime Etuo who had settled in her father’s compound in Ikot Osute after her divorce from her husband, reunited with her husband and lived with him in her father’s compound. However, she was said to be involved in a love affair with another man from Ikot Ukpong village against the wish of her husband, and later, chased her husband away. It was learnt that this infuriated youths in her community, and led by one Udeme, the youths beat up the new lover popularly known as ‘chop I chop’ until he died. A witness, Mr Idongesit Jacob, said in reaction, the Village Head of Ikot Osute, Chief O. Tana, mobilized some youths who seized Udeme and waited for the Police to arrest him Jacob said Udeme however tricked his captors with the claim that he should be released as he was hungry and needed to eat. But upon his release, Udeme escaped into the bush. “As we were waiting for the Police to arrive from Oruk Anam Police station, the culprit ran away. Efforts by the youths to search for him proved abortive,” he said. It was gathered that when the youths of Ikot Ukpong village learnt that their son had been killed, they left for Ikot Osute village for a reprisal attack. A fight was said to have ensured between the youths of both villages, and one Idongesit Bassey was shot dead, while two others who sustained varying degrees of bullet wounds were rushed to the Immanuel General Hospital for treatment. Jacob said one Promise Unanaowo later died after being taken away from the hospital by his relatives to a native doctor, in a bid to get the bullet extracted from him. He said the two communities have been deserted as people have abandoned the villages for refuge in neighbouring communities. He said, “They removed Promise from Immanuel Hospital for the native extraction of bullets and the young man died after the bullets were removed because he could not stool or urinate.” When contacted, the state’s Police Public Relations Officer, Supol Odiko Macdon, confirmed the casualties, saying the police has mounted surveillance in the area to forestall further hostilities. “The police has mounted surveillance in the area to forestall further hostilities but would arrest suspects for investigations and bring the culprits to book,” he noted. The changing story of water in Akwa Ibom Changing lives with safe water supply: Story of Akwa Ibom communities Children missing after A/Ibom pipeline explosion Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin