The Federal Government, through the Transforming Irrigation Management in Nigeria (TRIMING) project has launched a N100 million research to tackle the problem of soil salinity affecting tomato and rice farmers in Kano River Irrigation Project area. The research, which is being undertaken by experts from Bayero University Kano, in conjunction with the International Crop Research Institute for Semi Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), is aimed at delineating the salt/sodium prone areas so as to proffer solution to the age-long menace. Over 22,000 hectares of farm lands in the project (KRIP) area traversing Kura, Bunkure and Garun-Malam local government areas of the state were said to have high concentration of salt and sodium which are inhibitive to plant growth. Daily Trust gathered that within the last five to 10 years since the problem started manifesting in the areas, about 30 to 40 per cent of annual output of paddy rice and tomatoes produced in the areas are lost to soil salinity. Addressing the press at a one-day sensitization workshop in Kano, the project’s business specialist, Hallai Garba said, “The intention of this particular research is to really train the farmers, to try to proffer solutions on how they can actually address these particular problem so that the losses attributed to it can be actually addressed or reduced to the barest minimum,” he said. The lead researcher, Prof. Abdu Mohammed Manga of Department of Agronomy in the Faculty of Agriculture, Bayero University Kano, advised farmers to always conduct soil test to determine ‘what nutrients are required in the soil and at what quantity’ before planting. FG launches N100m research to curb soil salinity in Kano The proper ways to farm wheat Can guaranteed minimum price enhance rice production? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin