Nigeria is still largely a mono-economy, largely depending on oil revenues to drive its economy. To reverse the trend, the present administration developed and is implementing the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) since 2017. This analysis looks at the giant strides on growing the non-oil sector performance and ensuring that the gains are not reversed. A key thrust of the ERGP entails diversifying the economy away from oil to non-oil, especially exports. In December 2018, the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said some gains have been recorded. She said Nigeria recorded some growth in the non-oil sector which grew by 2.05 per cent, representing the strongest growth in non-oil GDP since Q2 2015. One key incentive that could attract more gains for the non-oil sector is the Promissory Note (PN). However, the Debt Management Office (DMO) is pursuing what it called Reverse Auction Process (RAP). The RAP is said to be affecting the N195 billion claims due to Nigerian exporters recently approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Just recently, in Washington, the minister wooed investors to Nigeria. She said Nigeria is driving reforms in several sectors which will potentially impact private investors positively. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank at the 2019 Spring Meetings held in Washington DC also specifically told Nigeria to make concerted efforts to broaden its revenue base through non-oil revenue sources. It is meant to withstand elevated risks from oil price vulnerabilities. Improvement in governance and ease of doing business are desirable in Nigeria, IMF said. “Specifically for Nigeria, I think we see some economic recovery. Growth in 2018 was close to 2 per cent and 2.1 per cent is projected for 2019 but this is well below the potentials of this economy,” Abebe Aemro Selassie, Director African Department at the IMF said recently in Abuja at the presentation of the IMF Regional Outlook. He said Nigeria needs to maximize its potentials and grow its non-oil revenue, noting that no oil revenue is too small; about four per cent to GDP, he said. The United States’ Consul General in Lagos, John Bray, who spoke recently at the 9th edition of Securex West Africa, said “the country is in sore need of economic diversification.  It does have some potential avenues it could exploit, such as agriculture and Nigeria’s growing popular entertainment sector (which could outpace oil and gas revenues if properly exploited). “1987 was the last year Nigeria recorded economic growth in agriculture as low as it did in 2018, just over 1 percent,” he noted. These statistics clearly indicate Nigeria faces some daunting economic challenges, he stated. Private sector wants sustained incentives The organized private sector has called on the Federal Government to sustain incentives for exporters to grow non-oil revenue. Ade Adefeko, a player in agriculture export, in a published report said, “Non-oil exports started declining since 2014 due to uncertainty and poor implementation of the Export Expansion Grant policy. Non-oil exports have crashed to about $1.5 billion from a peak of about $3bn in 2013. “This should be a wake-up call for the Federal Government to ensure that policies targeted at non-oil exports are implemented effectively,” he noted. The Organized Private Sector Exporters Association (OPSEA) in protest against the RAP policy, recently wrote an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari and prayed he prevails on the DMO to abolish the policy if the gains in no-oil exports must be sustained. The letter read in part: “We are being constrained to draw your attention to the continued hardship and ill-treatment being inflicted upon the businesses and investors in strategically important non-oil export sector, especially as it relates to the Promissory Notes (PN) programme of the Federal Government of Nigeria. “We, the exporters have been waiting anxiously since the approval from the National Assembly (NASS) for the PN to be issued. But to our deep shock and dismay, we were informed that the DMO is now planning to issue the PN through a Reverse Auction Process (RAP).” On what RAP means, the exporters said it meant that beneficiaries of PN would have to offer discounts to their claims before they can be disbursed. “The Reverse Auction Process (RAP) for issuance of Promissory Notes (PNs) should be reconsidered by the government,” OPSEA insisted. OPSEA is further demanding that exporters should be issued PNs with shortest tenure (spread evenly over a maximum period of three years) bearing in mind that payment has been delayed for a period of three to 12 years for member’s claims. The experts said unless DMO makes itself clearer on the deductions and discounts on the Promissory Notes, as it stands, it is unfair to treat other beneficiaries with contempt as such moves will dampen the spirit of exporters and the business, thereby further creating disruptions in exportations to the detriment of the economy.  Oil sector slows GDP to 1.50% in Q2 Buhari, Osinbajo celebrate Nigeria''s exit from recession How economic recovery plan expanded Nigeria’s trade, industrial sectors Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin