A former Governor of Abia State and Senator-elect for Abia North under the APC, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu, has said that the election of Sen. Ahmed Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives is a done deal. Chief Kalu said this on Sunday when he hosted the campaign team of Gbajabiamila and Ahmed Idris Wase, who are the APC’s choice for speaker and deputy speaker respectively. He said the APC which required 55 votes to produce the senate president had gotten 59 already. Kalu said, “We have signed 58 senators, including the senator of the YPP; so we have 59 senators, but we still give other parties opportunity to join us for Ahmed Lawan so that we have a united house, but we only need 55 to make the senate president. “What we have done in the senate will happen in the House of Representatives; we have concluded in the senate and in the next four days we will conclude in the House of Reps. We have no alternative as legislators, we need to support Mr. President with his Next Level agenda; we need to support Mr. President in rebuilding the economy.” He said contrary to reports, Gbajabiamila remained the candidate of President Muhammadu Buhari and not that of a former Lagos State Governor, Ahmed Bola Tinubu. Speaking earlier, Gbajabiamila, who is the Majority Leader in the House of Representatives, said his first encounter with Kalu was during the third term imbroglio. He said Kalu’s courage and direction was indelible and that without his input the truncation of the third term agenda might not have been possible. “We are here to solicit for your support and not to take things for granted. Hon. Wase and I have about 30 years cumulative legislative experience. I am in my fifth term and he is in his fourth term. And I used to joke that you cannot buy that in the market. Even when we were in the minority, as the deputy minority leader, we had been working closely together, and we believe we can do things differently,” he said. 9th Assembly: 11 aspirants jostle for Deputy Senate President, Deputy Speaker NASS Leadership: APC Governors endorse Lawan, Gbajabiamila Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin