Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia, on Wednesday in Umuahia, swore-in Chief Okiyi Kalu as the state’s Information Commissioner. Ikpeazu also swore-in 17 chairmen and deputies of Local Government Area Transition Committees in the state. Speaking at the ceremony held at the Michael Okpara Auditorium, Umuahia, the governor urged the appointees to be diligent in discharge of their duties. He said that kalu’s reappointment as information commissioner was as a result of his outstanding commitment towards realising the objectives of the administration. “Once again you have been appointed because of your service to the local government and Abia State, we expect you to correct the mistakes you have made,’’ he said. The governor, who also urged the transition committees to be open to suggestions and constructive criticisms, said government would not tolerate incompetence in service delivery. “We expect you to face the business of governance and administration because your activities are central and pivotal to the well-being of the people,” he said. Ikpeazu said his administration was expecting a cordial relationship between the transition committee and the people at the third tier level. “We shall have zero tolerance for corruption, ineptitude, insensitivity and dereliction of duty,” he said. Responding, Kalu thanked the governor for finding him worthy of reappointment, saying, “I will double my commitment in serving Abia people”. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Chief Paul Onyegbu, transition committee chairman for Bende Local Government Area, pledged commitment of the committees to the service of Abia people. Those sworn-in as transition committee chairmen also include Mr Charles Esonu; Aba North, Dr N.C. Okoli; Aba South, Mr Dan Okoli; Arochukwu, Mr Chiemezie Okoronkwo; Isiala Ngwa North and Mr Ike Anyatonwu; Isiala Ngwa South. Others are; Mr Dan Chima; Ikwuano, Mr Chima Agbaeze; Isiukwuato, Mr Chidiebere Ihenyirimadu; Obingwa, Mr Mba Ukagha; Ohafia, Mr Victor Nwaogu; Osisioma Ngwa and Mr Kelechi Onyenze; Umuahia North. Ikpeazu also swore in Mr Neighbour Onwukaike for Umuahia South, Mr Chima Mgbeke; Umunneochi, Mr O. C. Nwamuo; Ukwa East, Mr Ephraim Nwaji; Ukwa West and Mr Chijioke Uruakpa; Ugwunagbo. (NAN) Abia gov warns councils against zero IGR declaration 2019: Ikpeazu receives Certificate of Return Ikpeazu to pay salary arrears Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin