The All Progressives Congress, APC, Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to lead fence-mending efforts and address obvious grievances in many states among party stakeholders. Nabena, who made the call on Wednesday in Abuja while speaking with journalists, said the ongoing war of words between some top leaders of the APC, particularly the current National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and immediate-past National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, was unnecessary distraction currently weakening the governing party. The Bayelsa-born APC chieftain appealed to both Oshiomhole and Odigie-Oyegun to end their public hostilities for the sake of the party and focus on the important task of forming government at the state and federal levels to deliver on the Next Level mandate. He said the party needed a united house to ensure its growth and strength. Nabena said: “The losses the APC suffered during the 2019 General Election in some states, which we previously controlled, is indeed worrisome. “However, we are still the governing party which produced the President; control majority states and have an overwhelming majority in the National Assembly. “Compared to the failed Peoples Democratic (PDP), the APC remains the political party of choice for both Nigerians and politicians. “I urge our aggrieved members to remain in the APC fold and settle their differences. In fact, in a few months, we expect a huge influx from members of the PDP and other political parties into the APC. “Elections have been won and lost. High-level meetings such as National Caucus and the National Executive Committee (NEC) are there to address party matters.” Some APC leaders had traded blames over the losses suffered by the party in some APC governed States after clashes on the mode of primaries adopted to elect APC candidates for the 2019 elections in some states. Real reasons Oyegun withdrew from APC chairmanship race Oyegun’s battle to stay as APC top notcher Oshiomhole, Oyegun trade  blame for defeat in 5 states Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin