Detectives attached to Ogun State Police Command at the weekend, carried out co-ordinated raids on dens of criminals in the state. At the end of the operations which started on Friday, four suspected members of Aiye and Eiye cult groups were arrested. Those arrested were identified as Tunde Olabinjo, 22, Raheem Ibrahim, 28, Tawaq Azeez, 23, and Bisoye Ajayi. The suspects, according to the police, were arrested at Iwesi area of Ijebu-Ode. It was learnt that the suspects were planning to carry out an attack on members of a rival cult group when they were arrested. The police said that the suspects are confirmed members of the dreaded Eiye confraternity who have been carrying out various dangerous attacks at  Iwesi area of Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State . According to the report by the Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, the arrest of the suspects was as a result of information received by the command that the Eiye cult group were holding a meeting in a hideout at Iwesi area of Ijebu-Ode, in a bid to carry out a deadly attack in the area. He said that on receiving the information, the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, gave a marching order to the officer in-charge of Special Anti-Robbery Squad, CSP Tijani Mohammed, to move into the area in order to nip the planned attack in the bud. In compliance with the Commissioner of Police’s directive, a team of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), stormed the hideout where four members of the group were apprehended. Items recovered from them were: one cut to size single barrel gun, one locally made pistol and one battle axe. The arrested suspects have all confessed being members of the deadly Eiye cult group and that they were planning to launch an attack on a rival cult group within Ijebu-Ode before they were arrested. Meanwhile, Makama has ordered a serious manhunt for the rest of members of the group with the view to bring them to justice. Police foil cultists’ attack, arrest four in Ogun Three killed, as police nab 22 suspects over Ogun cult clash 30 arrested over cultism in Ogun Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin