An indigenous contractor at the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG), Messrs. Shedrack Ogboru, has disagreed with the company over a N95 million contract debt. Mr Ogboru, Managing Director of Macobarb, in a briefing in Port Harcourt, yesterday, said his company is heavily indebted to a commercial bank where it took N68 million loan since 2014 to execute the first phase of the project that NLNG hasn’t paid for. He said failure of NLNG to honour payment schedules without any reason led to his firm being blacklisted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for bad debt, adding that his contract liability has accrued to  N1.147bn because of NLNG’s refusal to pay him. Ogboru said Macobarb got a job on January 9, 2014, to fabricate and install world class access entry system called ‘Integrated Turnstiles and Vehicle Barriers System. The contract, worth N95m, was to be executed in phases and supervised by a team of experts and engineers from the NLNG. He said trouble started when he fabricated the turnstiles in Europe and met the first payment milestone, only for the request of about N30m payment to be rejected despite endorsement by all the four engineers supervising the project. He said the N68m loan turned into bad debt with accumulated interest, adding that those that facilitated the loan for him in the bank have lost their jobs while CBN blacklisted him. He said NLNG held several meetings under the former managing director, Babs Omotowa, on the matter and offered him the contract. When contacted, NLNG Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Andy Odeh, confirmed that contract was signed between NLNG and Macobarb. He said the contract was valued at N95.5m with 18 months delivery schedule and that it was  not written into the contract documents that the contractor would take a loan to execute the project. He said, “Macobarb was unable to execute the project, thereby incurring protracted delays, despite several interventions by NLNG to help the company overcome its inability to finance the project in line with its obligations. “Upon termination, Macobarb was paid N41.2m for work it was able to accomplish and the materials it elected to handover to NLNG during the close-out process,” he said. NLNG agrees to pay $140m debt to NIMASA NLNG remits $121.5bn to FG – MD We are ready for probe –NLNG boss Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin