Family members of the late Chris Iwarah, are calling on the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, to come to their aid, alleging that the Investigating Police Officer (IPO), in charge of the case is shielding the driver who ran over the deceased. Iwarah, who until his death was the Head Corporate Communications, Air Peace, died last Friday in a ghastly auto crash at Mangoro bus stop, on the Agege Motor Road, Lagos. He died when a TATA bus rammed into his car. Julius Iwarah, one of the younger brother of the deceased alleged that policemen in-charge of the case, had been dribbling them since after the unfortunate incident occurred. The young Iwarah alleged that all efforts to reach neither the owner of the vehicle nor the driver proved abortive even though they have on good authority that the driver of the bus was in police custody. He said that when he approached the police to show him the exact scene of the accident, the policemen declined. He had to contract a commercial motorcycle operator who led him to the site. At the site of the accident, the damaged car of the deceased was left there Another younger brother of the deceased, Barrister Abel Iwarah, alleged that the investigating police officer was making himself inaccessible and difficult for the family to make a formal statement and complaint on the matter. Abel added that the police officer said he would be charging the matter to court on Monday and insisted that he won’t be at the station for them to make a statement. When our reporter visited the scene of the accident, only the vehicle of the deceased was found by the side of a badly crushed fence and gate leading to a church. One of the witnesses, who identified himself as Malik Musa, said the police had spoken to the owner of the bus through his phone.  Two die in Lagos auto crash ‘How police rescued my wife, daughter from kidnappers’ Day Onitsha residents took laws into their hands Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin