A  Federal High Court, sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital,has sentenced a farmer, Ogunlisa Igbekele, to  a six-year imprisonment  for dealing in adulterated petroleum products. He was however, given an option of fine of N200,000. The court convicted Igbekele, for transporting petrol and diesel, suspected to be adulterated products with black Toyota Camry car withnumber plate, Lagos DZ 72 EKY, on October 9, 2014, at Aye along Okitipupa-Ore road, in the riverine area of the state. Igbekele and others now  at large were said to have dealt in 32 kegs of about 960 litres of adulterated petroleum and diesel contrary to section 3(6), 1(17) and 1(8) of the miscellaneous offences Act Cap M17 LFN 2000 and 2004 of the state. Delivering judgment, the judge, Justice (Mrs) F.A Olubanjo, held that counts two and four of the charge in which the convict dealt in petroleum and diesel products without lawful license, attract three years imprisonment with options of N100,000 fine each. “The sentence, according to the judgment, shall run concurrently from the day judgment was delivered. This means that the convict shall spend three years in prisons or pay a cumulative fine of N200,000”, she said She further ordered the forfeiture of the black Toyota Camry Saloon vehicle to the Federal Government through the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ondo state Command as well the 32 kegs of diesel in like manner or be destroyed. According to the NSCDC Prosecutor, Adedeji Olayiwola, the convict and others at large, committed the offence on October 9, 2014, at Aye along Okitipupa/Ore road in the state within the jurisdiction of the court, contrary to section 3(6) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act Cap, M17, LFN 2006 and should be convicted. Counsel to the defendant, Remi Olatubora, explained that the convict was a first offender who had emaciated over the period of trial. Mr. I.S. Oluwagbemiga, who held the brief of Olatubora, prayed the court to tamper justice with mercy.  SON, DPR at war over diesel adulteration Navy arrests 14 suspected oil, diesel smugglers Adulterated fuels in circulation - NNPC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin