The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) says it is not conducting another verification exercise for the staff of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) and is not in any way connected with the purported verification by a group. The BPE in a statement, yesterday, by its spokesperson, Amina Tukur Othman, said its attention was drawn to attempts by a group of former staff of the defunct PHCN to link the bureau to a purported verification exercise for the disengaged staff of the company. “In the correspondence, captioned: ‘BPE – Notice To All Disengaged Staff of Ex-PHCN Staff’, and written in poor English, the group, represented by one Ndiwe Louis Okechukwu, requested former staff of the defunct PHCN to visit designated venues in the country with relevant documents and a  processing fee of N1,000 each. It also said BPE has released 10,000 forms with a security number to all the zones across the country and that the forms must be returned in hard copies with specific requirements and after processing, payment would commence until the whole 48,000 staff are paid,” BPE said. The BPE, therefore, said it is not in any way connected with the purported verification by the group, and warning all former staff of the PHCN and general public to take note. “It must be noted that each time the bureau carries out verification of former staff of the defunct PHCN, adequate publicity is carried out with the involvement of the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) and the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEC). But in the purported verification by the group these are absent.”  Anxiety over looming sack of ex-PHCN staff by new owners Nonpayment of benefits to disengaged defunct PHCN Staff FG pays N1.05bn labour liabilities of defunct PHCN Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin