The Managing Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Mr Usman Gur Mohammed has said only critical investments in the 11 Distribution Companies (DisCos) can ensure sustainable power supply. Mr Mohammed disclosed this at the bid opening for ‘Design, Supply and Installation of OPGW Fibre Cable and Universal Optical Transport Network Equipment’ by various power firms at the TCN headquarters in Abuja. The fibre optic procurement and installation process are part of the big step TCn is taking to attain the Supervisory Control and data Acquisition (SCADA) system to monitor the grid using remote and online real-time technology. Mohammed said the problem of power supply can be addressed within the shortest time if those critical investments are done to drive a sustainable electricity market. “The DisCos must have adequate investment network as 90 per cent of them can’t supply electricity after rain fall. As such since managing DisCos at times pose some challenges, there must be effective management of their investment,” he noted. The TCN boss also outlined the four key focus of the company. He said TCN has achieved 66 per cent frequency control and procured 260 megawatts (MW) of spinning reserve to stabilize the power grid. “In the area of critical investment, we have also added 3,100MW to the grid which is unprecedented and we were able to achieve that through in-house capacity, we haven’t installed the SCADA yet but we are tackling the problem of automation headway,” he said. He noted that implementation of power privatization in the right way will be the only way to guarantee the right target. Mohammed assured all the companies bidding for the contract of prompt release of funds for whoever gets award of the contract, saying “We already have the money and funding will come from our dedicated dollar account.”  TCN wants 11 DisCos to capitalise for N1.5trn investment needs TCN installs 27 transformers, raises electricity grid by 2,148MW TCN raises Okpella substation by 300%, installs 30 transformers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin