The people of Jigawa state have expressed their disappointment over the inability for the state government to celebrate democracy day. Unlike other states of the federation, Jigawa state looks desolated as the state government failed to celebrate the maiden June 12 Democracy Day. The state governor Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar, has been away for nearly a week now though, and there was no official statement on where he went. Sani Bala, a businessman condemned the action of the state government over the nonchalant attitude of the government to  celebrate the day, saying the failure of the state to join the rest of the country in the celebration tells a lot on the psychological trauma the people of the state might have gone through. He lamented that even if the state government felt there wasn’t sufficient funds in the coffers to spend for the celebration, the day could have been marked in another style, as even a state broadcast would have been okay. “The state was abandoned. The governor has been away since last Thursday. The state executive council and all political appointees had since been dissolved. So nobody to handle governance related issues.” Tafida Muhammed, a civil servant, added that it was quite unfair to be reading about other states making commitments in the pages of Newspapers but nothing is heard of Jigawa state. He said that people in the position of authority should be able to be accountable to the people they govern,  arguing that decision of those in authority had be based on the pulse of the governor but not on unilateral consideration as it is the case for not celebrating the day in the state. “It is the yearning and aspiration of the majority if not all the people of this state to celebrate the maiden edition of democracy day in fanfare but to our chagrin, nothing for us and no explanation to that regard.”    June 12 celebration will signify triumph of people’s will, says Lai Mohammed NGF chair Yari commissions 2 roads in Jigawa June 12: Lagos Speaker lauds Buhari`s political will on Democracy Day Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin