Former Head of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), Angus Ozoka, has added his voice to the recent spat between AIB and Air Peace over alleged concealment of serious incident report. He said the damage assessment by AIB did not reveal “that an accident or serious incident occurred as hard landing does not equate to an accident or serious incident”. In a statement made available to our correspondent, yesterday, he said though AIB indicated that the nature of the damage to Air Peace’s aircraft B737-300 with registration 5N-BUK suggests a high probability of an accident, it was difficult to reach such conclusion when a thorough investigation was yet to be carried out. Daily Trust reports that AIB recently accused Air Peace of failing to report some incidents to it which claim the airline faulted. However, Ozoka who is also a former Rector of the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) and Head of AIB during the first ICAO Audit in January, 2007, called for caution against publications that portray the industry personnel as unprofessional He said, “With regard to Air Peace B737-300 with registration 5N-BUO, a malfunctioning Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) does not equate to an accident or serious incident and does not ‘make’ an accident. “Its primary purpose is to complement i.e. facilitate investigation, and so one is at a loss to see what “sin” the airline has committed. “According to AIB, the nature of the damage suggests a high probability of an accident but it is difficult to see how such a conclusion can be reached when a thorough investigation was not carried out,” he said. Ozoka said the assertion that Air Peace lacked full understanding of AIB’s statutory mandates, functions and procedures did not derive from any investigation with recommendations and such a conclusion could therefore not be reached. He said AIB shouldn’t have gone to press, saying the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) which is a regulatory body would not have publicized such report. He said, “So far, no accidents or serious incidents were shown to have occurred in the publication by AIB. If, by chance, Air Peace, which is unarguably the leading airline in Nigeria lacks full understanding of AIB’s mandates etc, then it will be very safe to conclude that other airlines in the country equally lack this ‘full understanding’. “The AIB should therefore take appropriate action to brief and educate all airlines in the country on such requirements for the wellbeing of the sector as AIB plays a critical role in aviation safety. Nothing stops the bureau from charging a fee for their services as it is within their purview to do so. “Annex 13, ‘Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation’ does not provide for the type of press release made by AIB and published by the media in which an airline is blamed and castigated even when no accident occurred and no investigation carried out to reveal cause(s) and recommend measures to prevent re-occurrence. “Press releases are targeted at critical stakeholders such as regulators, manufacturers et al for timely measures to enhance safety. “Most of the issues in the publication are under the purview of the NCAA and it is believed that they are alive to their responsibilities, as the blame did not originate from them”.  AIB set to release report on Suntai's plane crash, six others Late Suntai not qualified to fly plane – AIB Breaking: Why Danbaba Suntai's plane crashed — AIB Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin