Citizens Health Education and Development Initiative (CHEDI), an NGO, on Saturday inaugurated a programme to empower 40 women in Gbagalape, Nyanya, a suburb of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Speaking at the inauguration of the programme, Mrs Selina Enyioha, Executive Director of CHEDI, said the initiative was geared towards alleviating the sufferings of women, children, the entire community. Enyioha, who decried the level of poverty particularly in rural communities in the country, attributed the situation to poor attention by the three tiers of government. She alleged that governments had neglected the less privileged in the society in the area of health, empowerment, infrastructure development among others. The CHEDI director explained that 20 of the women would be taught how to make household consumables like liquid soap, disinfectants among others while the other 20 would acquire skill in bead making. Enyioha identified other parts of the organisation’s project to include distribution of hospital equipment like solar light, couches, delivery bed, furniture, trolleys, bed and mattresses to some Primary Healthcare Centres within FCT and Nasarawa states. The executive director explained that the initiatives was specifically meant to address the plights of pregnant women, babies and the nurses in some hospitals who use touch lights and cell phones to take delivery due to lack of electricity. Enyioha condemned the poor state of some health facilities in the country, stressing that lot of them lack couches for examining pregnant women, delivery bed among others for safe delivery. She said that the lack of some of these basic facilities result in the high rate of maternal and child mortality. “These equipment are six solar lightening points, two delivery beds, four examination couches, one office table and chair, two examination trolleys, two filing cabinets and one hospital bed with mattress and pillow. “These will be distributed to some needy PHCs in Kwali, Gwagwalada, Bwari area councils and two PHCs in Nasarawa State,” Enyioha said. (NAN)  Group to equip six FCT health centres, empower urban poor Women key to breaking poverty Relief comes to Shere koko community through health center Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin