Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle has been re-elected as the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), after defeating Elder (Dr.) Caleb Ahima of TEKAN/ECWA block, for another three-year term. Ayokunle, who was first elected in June 2016, had polled 54 votes to defeat Prof. Joseph Otubu of the Motailatu Church Cherubim and Seraphim Movement with 28 votes in his first term. However, at Tuesday’s election conducted by Rev. Fr. Mathew Hassan Kukah-led electoral committee in Abuja, Ayokunle scored 59 while Ahima scored 44. Ayokunle is the President of the Nigerian Baptist Convention while Ahima is the Chairman of the TEKAN/ECWA block in CAN. Ahima, according to the Constitution of CAN, now becomes the Vice President to replaces the immediate past Vice President, Elder Joseph Otubu. Kukah charged the new leadership of the CAN “to work for the unity of the Body of Christ in Nigeria and to speak truth to power without necessarily being antagonistic towards the government. “You should not be too close to the government at the expense of the Church but to speak for the church when the need arises. This does not mean you are to be confrontational or fighting the government. “And you should work with those who contested against you, those who voted for you, who worked for you and those who worked against you. God gives us the freedom of choice and it is that gift we have just demonstrated. I am so happy that the election was free and fair as we can all see it.” In his remarks, Ayokunle promised to continue carrying the leadership of CAN along in all his actions and to work together with his new deputy. He charged church leaders in the country to avoid contradicting the position of the Association on national issues. “We are one but our actions must show that we are one. I advised all our leaders to borrow a leaf from Pastor Enoch Adeboye who said he does not need to be speaking again on any issue once the CAN President has spoken over it,” he said. On his part, Elder Ahima pledges to work harmoniously with Dr. Ayokunle on how to speak for the church in the country at times like these. The 104 members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the members constituted the delegates who voted in the exercise. Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin