Lagos state governor, Babajide Saanwo-Olu, has disclosed plans by his administration to unveil new security measures that will curtail incidences of kidnappings and other security challenges bedevilling the state. Sanwo-Olu disclosed this on Sunday at the Interdenominational thanksgiving service organized by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Gbagada, Lagos. The governor said plans on new security measures became imperative because of the rising level of insecurity in the country. He said the plan even becomes more expedient when one has to consider the status of Lagos as a mega city which its population required that the government makes fast stance on insecurity and other issues that could threaten the current peace and harmony being enjoyed by all. “This is because there are so many issues around security within Lagos and across the country. We will not sit back and fold our arms. We will work with the security operatives so that in the next couple of days, we will make a very definitive pronouncement on security. “The pronouncement will include what we need to do and how we will achieve a better secured state. This will help to ensure that issues around cultism, kidnapping, among others would be addressed. Lagos is home to all because it is the home for the rich and the poor. “We will strive to ensure that we do this within the resources that are available to us. We want to ensure that Lagos becomes the best place anyone can think on in terms of security,” Governor Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier, the CAN Chairman in Lagos state, Alexander Bamgbola, advised the governor against arrogance which he said has been the major challenge for many top political office holders. AD files petition to stop Sanwo-Olu’s swearing-in Actors Guild urges Sanwo-Olu to stick to Lagos State’s developmental master plan In just 1 week, I have lost weight governing Lagos—Sanwo-Olu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin