The Power Distribution Companies (DisCos) have said there is need to have an environment that guarantees cost recovery to drive further investments in the privatized sector. Speaking, yesterday, at a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) seminar in Abuja, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Mr Azu Obiaya, representing 10 privatised DisCos said, the firms were not against capitalisation. He said: “Rational investors would need to see a pathway of recovery of their investment for them to make the leap.” The DisCos have been directed by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to submit their PIP which will be a key input for the major review of electricity tariff – the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) 2020 expected to take off by January. “It is my hope that the PIP guidelines, if implemented faithfully, efficiently and consistently, will provide this pathway, as necessary to re-orient the sector towards commercial viability and sustainability,” Obiaya noted. The seminar had discussions focusing on improved service delivery, reducing Aggregate Technical, Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) loss, increased connections, and improved energy delivery. The Head of Trade and Economic Section of the European Union (EU) Delegation, Mr Filippo Amato at the event said the programme was designed by the French Development Agency (AFD) and financed by the EU with €2.3m (about N929.5 million), and implemented by ANED with technical support from AF Mercados. He placed the electricity supply industry losses at a growing rate of N1.3 billion daily, adding, “Nowadays, the average operational capacity of the grid that hovers around 4,500 megawatts (MW) and 5,500MW, cannot meet the needs of a growing population and industrial users.” AF Mercados Team Lead for the Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Programme (CaPTap), Mr. Jose Guerra, in a presentation on sector solutions, said the DisCos have improved their revenue collection but that the Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) allowed DisCos by NERC was not enough to invest in meters, transformers and the entire networks. Guerra added that six minor tariff reviews have not been applied by NERC and that another was due. “I hope they apply it this time,” he stated.  After 41 months, NERC plans 5yr electricity tariff for 11 DisCos Electricity: Protests, progress as privatised sector clocks 5 DisCos need $4.3trn capitalisation for efficiency - TCN Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin