The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) needs more quality events to expand the commercial potential of the fashion and lifestyle sector, Kevin Koya, fashion consultant says. Koya, who is also the creative director of ‘Connect And Chill’, FCT’s leading networking event for people in the creative industry and investors, said more initiatives are needed to boost the industry. In an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday, Koya said a large number of designers and other creative people leave Abuja in their numbers because there are hardly avenues to showcase their works. He said, “Week in, week out, you see people migrating to Lagos to thrive there. The interesting thing is that Abuja has a solid market but these people don’t feel wanted because they cannot showcase. “In Lagos, there are quality events everyday just for fashion designers, writers, singers or painters. The creative industry thrives there because attention is paid to it,” he said. Koya noted that the creative industry plays a major role in development adding that Abuja as the capital city, needs to hone it. He added that it was difficult for designers and artists to get the right funding and encouragement in Abuja and that there are few avenues to meet investors. Speaking on the contributions of his network to the growth and development of the Abuja creative space, Koya noted that there was still a lot of work to be done. He said, “Designers need loans and grants. Connect and Chill has been giving platforms to these creative individuals but much more is needed to make the industry better and bigger. “We have basically been an encouragement platform for upcoming brands to network and showcase without discrimination. “We are also working on the mindset of Abuja-based citizens to be more conscious of the creativity around them and show up, well dressed for these events. “We wish we could do more in terms of getting loans and grants for more designers and creatives to open up the space and reduce the Abuja-to-Lagos migration,” Koya said. (NAN)  Lagos Fashion and Design Week debuts MTN Lagos Fashion and Design Week enters season two Ankara no longer business for the poor - Fashion show investor Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin