Kano state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on Tuesday said the N6.8m missing in Kano Zoo was not swallowed by a gorilla. Speaking after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, the governor said preliminary investigation into the matter has revealed that the issue was an armed robbery case. “I have already directed the anti-corruption commission to wade into the issue. They are still investigating the issue. The preliminary report we received was that there was an armed robbery, not the issue of gorilla. “The issue of gorilla is a junk journalism because there’s no gorilla in the zoo. But we learnt that there was an armed robbery; a whole safe was even carted away but they are still investigating it. “The outcome of the investigation will let us know what actually happened but I’m sure there must be something wrong anyway,” he said. On why he met the president, he said he briefed Buhari over the security situation in Kano state. “We are always in synergy with security agencies to ensure that Kano remains peaceful despite what is happening in neighbouring states. Our emphasis now is on community policing and community participation especially in those local governments surrounding forest in Kano. “We have formed synergy with all the security agencies plus traditional institution. They are on ground and they get a lot of security information. They use it a lot in order to maintain peace and stability in our state. “As of today, I think Kano is one of the most peaceful states in the federation,” he said. He advised neighbouring states of Katsina and Zamfara to engage the community in resolving the security challenges confronting them. “What is important is community participation so that the security agencies can get information on how to arrest the culprits. “Also, there is need for community to avoid being recruited into the insurgency because once the youth are being recruited, that would complicated the matter and it would be very difficult to solve,” he said. Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin