A member-elect representing Bungudu West in Zamfara State House of Assembly on the platform of People Democratic Party, Alhaji Nasiru Bello Lawal, said young persons dominated the 9th Assembly in the state because of the zeal of the youths to positively change the state for the better. Speaking to Caliphate Trust, Lawal said many of the members-elect were still single and in their thirties. He said he hoped to see a good legislature- executive relationship and advised the next leadership of the assembly to focus on creating a synergy between the executive and legislature to achieve the desired objectives. “If I happened to be one of the leaders of the assembly I will make sure we put our heads together. We will also make sure that we make effective laws that will deal with the menace of insecurity. As an activist I spent significant part of my youthful years advocating for good governance,” he said. He said the youths in the state have the zeal and courage to make things go well and ensure good governance in the state adding that it was the reason they aspired for various positions in the state. “The position of the state on the national stage is unacceptable. Things must change for the better. As a lawyer I want to see a society where law and order prevail. This can be achieved through good representation,” he added. He said the house would join hands with the with the executive to help curb the menace of killings, kidnappings and other crimes in the state adding that confrontation with executive is not always the best but ensuring things are being done in the right way and at the right time.   My Senate president ambition originated from my colleagues – Lawan First-time Rep-elect urges Buhari to guide APC in selection of NASS leadership APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin