The FCT Police Command has arrested 10 suspected armed robbers said to be terrorising residents of Gwagwalada town and its environs. A statement by the spokesman of the command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the suspects were arrested by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the command after a tip off. He said the suspects, who were members of a notorious armed robbery gang that robbed and attacked their victims with dangerous weapons, were arrested at an uncompleted building, which he said they used as their hideout. He gave the names of the robbery suspects as Mohammad Jamilu, Nasiru Mohammed, Jamilu Jibril, Atau Abubakar, Nafiu Mohammed, Sadiq Abdullahi, Hashiru Garba, Isiaku Ahmed and Danjuma Abubakar. He added that the suspects have confessed to their participation in criminal activities like housebreaking, phone snatching and armed robbery. He added that a 54 year-old man, Salisu Ali,  was the major receiver of the items robbed by the suspects, saying exhibits recovered from suspects included three Plasma television sets, two generators, three  laptops, one axe, one dagger, assorted charms, jewellery, clothes, shoes among others. Manzah further said the operatives of the command also arrested one Kamal Gali, who specialised in attacking his victims with dangerous weapons and dispossessing them of their valuables. According to him, the suspect was arrested after a complaint was received from one of his victims, saying the police operatives swung into action and traced the suspect to his hideout at Jabi forest where he was arrested. “And he has made useful statement about his involvement in the crime, while exhibits recovered from him include one jack knife, one Infinix phone and one Samsung Duos phone,”  he said. He said the suspects would be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigation.  Police arrest 14 suspects for armed robbery, kidnapping in Niger Police arrest, parade kidnappers, robbers in Bauchi Police arrest mother of 10 for aiding armed robbers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin