The Oyo State command of the Nigerian Police Force, on Monday, paraded 29 members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in connection with public disturbance during the inauguration of Governor Seyi Makinde. The State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Shina Olukolu, who paraded the NURTW members at the command’s headquarters in Ibadan, said a team of policemen detailed at the entrance of Liberty Stadium, Ibadan, arrested 14 of the suspects with dangerous weapons, during the inauguration. Those arrested are: Oladimeji Opeyemi. He was arrested with one double barrel gun with 4 live cartridges; Monsuru Oladejo, arrested with one single barrel gun with one cartridge; Abdulahi Kasali, arrested with one live cartridge; Yusuf Rasheed, arrested with charms and Indian hemp; Olusola Akintomo, arrested with sharp cutlass and criminal charms; Opeyemi Balogun, arrested with charms. Others are: Johnson Akanji; Kabiru Afolabi; Lukman Mukaila, arrested with charms; Ridwan Rasaq, arrested with one sharp knife; Samuel Taiwo; Taoreed Suleiman, arrested with charms; Sodiq Sarafa, arrested with one sharp knife; and Mutiu Rasheed, arrested with one pump action. Olukolu noted that the arrested hoodlums came to the venue of the inauguration with the intention of using the arms recovered from them to cause mayhem at the venue. Olukolu explained further that, another 15 members of the Oyo NURTW were arrested following a complaint by one Dauda Adisa, who reported to the police that he was attacked along with the state Chairman of NURTW, Alhaji Abideen Ejiogbe, on their way from Liberty Stadium to the Orita Challenge Motor Park. The police boss said Adisa reported that “on getting to the said office, they saw two Micra taxis, three buses and a Previa car loaded with hoodlums who shot into the air sporadically and use cutlasses; hence, in the process few members of the union sustained open injuries”. He gave the names of people arrested in connection with the fracas to include: Musibau Lasisi, 57; Tirimisiyu Adegoke, 42; Taye Oguntade, 42; Babatunde Rasheed, 37; Adesina Ajayi, 30; Adisa Ganiyu, 29; Taoreed Ajiboro, 42; Suraju Adepoju, 47; Sodiq Adeyemo, 21. Others are: Akanji Named, 27; Ajobo Ademola, 43; Muritala Rodwan, 30; Anthony Igwe, 30; KAZEEM Adio, 20; and Tajudeen Alagbe, 62. Olukolu maintained that several attempts were made by the hoodlums to extend the violent disturbance of public peace to Idi Arere, Bere, Orita Aperin, Muslim, Iwo Road, and Eruwa motor parks, all within Ibadan metropolis but failed. The Oyo police boss revealed further that the suspects were in the process when they were arrested by a combined team of policemen, military and DSS.  Police arrest suspected illegal arms dealer in Ibadan 5 in police net over cultist’s death, violent clash on Lagos Island Police nabbed 22 suspects for attempted murder, car theft Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin