Detectives attached to Sabo Police Station, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested a two-man squad of motorcycles snatching syndicate, recovered two guns from them. The suspects were arrested after they engaged the police team in a bloody shootout, resulted into one of the suspects, Olakunle Ayo, sustained severe injury. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the arrest, said that the incident occurred on June 8, 2019. Elkana said that on the said day at about 10.00am, one Mohammed  Faruk,  of number 37, Teslim Street, Bariga, reported at Sabo Police Station that, two men namely; Tobi Onileowo, 26, of Ilupeju, and Olakunle  Ayo, 25, who resides at Igbogbo area of Ikorodu, shot him with a gun in an attempt to snatch his motorcycle. The Lagos State Police Spokesman, said that based on the strength of the report, a team of police officers led by the Divisional Police Officer, Sabo, CSP Chike Ibe, swung into action. He said that the police team went after the suspects and that on sighting the police team, the suspects engaged the policemen in a gun battle. “The fleeing gun men were subdued, and in the process, one Tobi Onileowo, was arrested while Olakunle Ayo was fatally injured. One double barrel pistol with two expanded cartridges and one live cartridge were recovered from the suspects, Investigation into the case is ongoing” he added. Elkana, further said that in the same vein, detectives from the command arrested three traffic robbery suspects and recovered some firearms. According to him, on June 8, 2019, at about 12.30am, surveillance patrol team from Shomolu Pedro Police station arrested three traffic robbery suspects at Anthony Oke area. He said that those arrested were identified as, Ayomide Olamipo, ‘m’, 21y ears, Ogundiran Timileyin, ‘m’, 22 years and Blessing Ndubusi,‘f’, 16 years. “One locally made pistol, one sharp knife and expended AK 47 bullet were recovered from the suspects. They all confessed to be responsible for traffic robberies along Shomolu and environ. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court” he said.  Two cultists arrested over attempt to disrupt Yaba Tech matriculation Three arrested for attempting to snatch bags 16 cultists in police net over killing of 28-yr-old man Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin