A native of the FCT from Kuje Area Council, Talatu Adamu of the Department of Chemistry, University of Abuja, has emerged the best graduating student with a CGPA of 4.82. The university graduated 4, 946 students during its 23rd convocation ceremony held at the permanent site, Airport Road, Abuja on Saturday. In his address, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Michael Adikwu, congratulated the graduands, saying the  university expected them to be worthy ambassadors outside the school. He urged them to rise to the challenges the country was grappling with in the economic and social sectors. “The situation today demands of you, a complete change of attitude, perseverance and a dose of ingenuity in tandem with the mood of the nation,” he said. Speaking at the occasion, President Muhammadu Buhari, urged the graduands of the university to use skills and knowledge they have acquired to transform the country and also contribute their quota to national development. Buhari, represented by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr. Sunday Echonu, noted that the critical component of university education was molding of character and  called on the graduands to demonstrate that they were worthy of the degrees they had earned. He said the Federal Government was committed to addressing youth unemployment, adding that the present administration would not rest until youth unemployment was reduced to the barest minimum. He advised the youth to embrace measures aimed at  curbing unemployment in the country.  He said that his administration would continue to improve on infrastructure  in universities, promote teachers development and address deficiency in the educational system.  20 graduands bags first class at FUNAI Baze honours graduates at 5th convocation ceremony Female medicine graduate clinches 19 prizes at convocation Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin