The All Progressives Congress stakeholders in Kogi State have appealed to the national leadership of the ruling party to adopt direct primaries to elect its governorship candidate ahead of November 16, 2018 election. Senator Alex Kadiri, who addressed journalists after a meeting in Abuja, said direct primaries would enable every card-carrying member of the party from all the local governments to choose a candidate out of all contenders. Senator Kadiri, at the meeting attended by 17 out of 20 APC governorship aspirants, said the stakeholders decided to hold a discussion after a report calling for the adoption of indirect primary by a ‘committee’ loyal to Governor Yahaya Bello. The ex-federal lawmaker, who asked the National Working Committee (NWC) to constitute a caretaker committee in order to win the state, said the party is still divided. He said, “We want to reiterate for the third time that APC Kogi State is divided and because of that division, we went to court. The case is still in court and we have not been able to fast-track that judgement the way Zamfara State was fast-tracked. “All the things Governor Yahaya Bello and his people are doing now are illegal because the committee with which he is working has no legal standing anywhere in law. “But as we are preparing for the governorship primaries, we want it known that we the leaders of the APC and the 20 aspirants of our party are opposed to the Yahaya Bello contrived method of doing primaries. “He cannot be a judge of himself, this is irresponsible. We are saying that the primaries for Kogi State must be direct primaries where all the members of the party from all the local governments will choose who they want to be their candidate.” Primaries: How ruling party courted problems APC approves direct primaries for Lagos, Zamfara, Imo, others APC: Abia adopts direct primaries  as Kebbi, Ebonyi opt for consensus Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin