A reading advocacy group has donated books to 12 senior secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The group, Reading Advocacy Initiative (RCAI), led by its Executive Director, Dr. Okoro O. Chukwudum, while making a symbolic donation at Government  Secondary School, Tudunwada, Wuse Zone 4, on Tuesday, said the books would boost reading culture among students in the territory. He said there were several books in the school and everywhere but people seldom read, adding that knowledge and information sharing would be enhanced if people dedicated more time to reading. He said successful students do not rely only on the effort of the school and their teachers but also made efforts to succeed. He said it was in order to encourage students to make personal efforts that the books were donated. “As students, you must read to succeed in your academics and examinations. You must read and study your books,” he said, adding that reading books was invaluable to their success in science, technology and business. “With the declining rate of reading culture among students and youth, and the need for students to take their studies serious, RCAI is donating five copies of the book to each of the selected 12 secondary schools in FCT,” he said. The book, An Introduction to Success through Reading, was written by a member of the group. The school’s principal, Mr Zubairu Avutu, commended the group for the donation adding that it would help the students to see the need to study to excel in life. Other schools to benefit from the donation are GSS Gosa, GGSS Abaji, GGSS Dutse, GSS Gwagwalada, GSS Kuje, GSS Kwali and GSS Yangoji.  When the President ‘brought back the book’ to Abuja A conversation with Jos literary activist Onotu David Onimisi (I) Nigeria @ 55: 2000 students  for FCT reading festival Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin