The Enugu State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has condemned the shooting of its youth leader in Enugu West Senatorial District, Mr. James Nwanjoku, by unidentified gunmen at the weekend and urged security agents to fish out and bring the attackers to book. The party said the victim, who is receiving medical treatment at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu, was shot on the head in his car on the Enugu-Port Harcourt highway by the armed men. The state chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, who confirmed the incident on Sunday in Enugu shortly  after visiting  the victim in the hospital, tasked security operatives, particularly  the police to make sure “those behind the barbaric act are apprehended and brought to justice.” Nwoye said: “We want to call on the security operatives to carry out thorough investigation on this ugly incident, because this is not the first time our members are being attacked. “If you recall, I narrowly escaped death by the whiskers sometime last year, when unknown heavily armed men invaded my Enugu residence, looking for me to be killed. “They shot one of the policemen attached to me who was seriously injured by bullet, and even took away his riffle, and up till date, the gun has not been recovered or the perpetrators arrested. “So, our party, the APC, is calling on the state Commissioner of police, Mr. Suleiman Balarabe, to engineer a proper investigation into this latest attack involving the Enugu West  APC youth leader, who was seriously injured.” Daily Trust gathered that the victim is a son of former Enugu State Chairman of  the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Onyiaoha Nwanjoku, who is currently a native ruler in Uduma, Aninri Local Government Area of  the state. When contacted, the state’s Police spokesperson, Ebere Amarizu, did not pick calls put across to his mobile number, just as text message sent to his line was not replied as at the time of filing this report. How gunmen stormed my residence to kill me - Enugu APC chairman APC to Enugu people: Keep away from ‘fake APC’ rally APC Youths protest over death of LG Chairman Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin