Twelve persons were feared killed and 15 others injured following some gunmen’s attacks on three communities in Kwaki – Chukuba ward in Shiroro local government area of Niger state. The attackers were said to have invaded the communities of Ajatayi, Gwassa, and Barden Dawaki on Sunday after laying siege on Gyammamiya and Alewa communities in the last four days. Our correspondent learnt that about 525 cows have been rustled by the bandits, with villagers fleeing trouble spots. The Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District, David Umaru, whose constituency the attack occurred told newsmen on Monday that he has been receiving distress calls over the attacks since three days ago. He said he had alerted security agencies on the development when he received information on the incident. “I am very sad about the continued invasion of our communities and the waste of innocent lives with impunity while security appeared to be overwhelmed,” he said. He called on security agencies to deploy more personnel to the affected areas, while also urging the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and its state counterpart to respond promptly to the emergencies thrown up by the situation. However, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Niger state command, DSP Abubakar Dan-Ina, who confirmed the development, said one person was killed while 15 others were injured in the attacks. He said the bandits had rustled cows and were attacking anybody that comes close for fear of arrest. He explained that the incident occurred in Ajapayi via Kwaki village in Shiroro local government, adding that the terrain is difficult to access but said the police are on top of the situation. “We are trailing the perpetrators and will surely arrest them and made them to face the wrath of the law. The DPO of the area has led a contingent of policemen including mobile police to the area,” he explained. Fears over Kaduna bandits being ‘next Boko Haram’...many villages deserted after attacks LG Boss lauds FG, Niger Govt. for tackling insecurity in Munya One feared dead in Kaduna as bandits attack Birnin Gwari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin