Rising from its Executive Stakeholders’ Forum in Abuja, the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), Abuja Branch, has said the poor state of transportation infrastructure across the country is costing Nigeria huge investments opportunities. CILT is also this situation is making the country uncompetitive as the cost of doing business keep rising as the cost of moving goods rise. Mr Reynolds Shodeinde, Assistant Director of Administration, CILT, who spoke at the forum said that an efficient transport infrastructure and effective logistics were prerequisite for local businesses and foreign investors to operate successfully. The theme of the forum was, ‘’Vision and Strategy for the 21st Century Logistics and Transport Organisation.” “Researchers have found that an improvement in infrastructure will decrease costs by 11 to 12 per cent, more so in the industry under review to which we all belong” he noted. Mr Alex Okosun, Abuja Branch Chairman of CILT, called for standard transport regulations and proper implementation of the existing laws, saying that transport was highly unregulated in Nigeria. “This is what CILT is trying to address by bringing all the critical stakeholders together such as policy makers and policy implementation officers to look at to critically in order to identify the way forward” he noted. “That is why we also want to continue with training and retraining of logistics and transport stakeholders and to also encourage the government to start implementing the regulations to enable the sector to make impact in the national economy,” he said.  Nigeria losing investors to poor transport infrastructure – experts Lack of policy is crippling logistics, transport growth – Institute Nigeria emerges first African Transport Institute territory, 56 years after Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin