The governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have endorsed Senator Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives for the ninth National Assembly expected to be inaugurated tomorrow. The newly elected Chairman of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, who addressed journalists after the meeting last night, said the governors had always been unanimous in supporting President Muhammadu Buhari. Bagudu said the governors would work towards ensuring that both Lawan and Gbajabiamila succeeded. He said the governors were united in supporting the positions taken by the party and urged all senators-elect and members-elect to also back the position. Bagudu said, “We use the opportunity to deliberate on our support for the leadership of the National Assembly. The governors of the APC have always been unanimous in supporting the party leader, President Muhammadu Buhari and our party in ensuring that we achieve a common purpose. “Towards that extent, we are all unanimous in our support for Senator Ahmed Lawan for the Senate presidency and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila for the Speaker of the House of Representatives and all governors are in agreement and we will work towards that purpose.” On APC members kicking against the zoning arrangement, he said, “We are urging our members, Senators and members of the House of Representatives to support the position and it is encouraging to see that other parties are happy to see the emergence of the unanimous position that has been taken by APC.” Asked whether the meeting discussed the current issues in the  party, Bagudu said, “This is an inaugural meeting, at all times, there are issues about the party that will obviously be discussed. “We are cognizant of the things we need to do to strengthen the party particularly emerging from a general election.” The meeting was attended by the governors of Edo, Lagos, Kano, Niger, Nasarawa, Kogi, Plateau, Gombe, Osun, Ekiti, Kwara, as well as deputy governors of Kaduna and Borno. Lawan to face Ndume However, Lawan (APC, Yobe) will still slug it out with Senator Ali Ndume (APC, Borno), who has refused to quit the race. Similarly, five candidates, all members of the APC, are also jostling for the position of deputy Senate president, Daily Trust reports. APC had zoned the position of Senate president to the North East zone and endorsed Lawan. Another contender, Senator Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe) had last week endorsed Lawan after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari. With this development, Lawan now has only Sen. Mohammed Ali Ndume as his challenger. There were indications that the two chambers of the National Assembly would adopt secret ballot method in the election of the presiding officers, meaning it would be difficult to know who voted for who. All the governors elected on the platform of APC met in Abuja yesterday, with sources saying the agenda might not be unconnected with the inauguration of the National Assembly. “The governors had separately spoken to the senators and representatives from their states for their support so that the APC would have an upper hand,” a source in the party said. “Most of the legislators are in good terms with their governors; in fact some of the senators had the support of their governors to get to the National Assembly and in some instances, it was the new senators that were instrumental to the emergence of some governors in their states; it is a symbiotic relationship,” he said. Lawan receives boost from PDP senators Daily Trust reports that the exit of Goje from the race made the scheming clearer as some PDP senators openly associated themselves with Sen. Lawan at the weekend. Initially, there were insinuations that majority of the 44 PDP lawmakers-elect in the Senate were disposed to Goje and had been waiting for their party to adopt him. But the National Working Committee (NWC) had not taken position on those its legislators should support, at least in the Senate. However, five PDP senators-elect were present on Friday when Sen. Lawan unfolded his agenda at an event in Abuja. The PDP senators that pledged their support for Lawan included the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Accounts, Senator Mathew Uroghide and Clifford Odia from Edo State, Abba Moro (Benue), Gershom Bassey (Cross River) and Lawali Anka (Zamfara). Other PDP senators like Peter Nwaoboshi had in separate fora promised to support Sen. Lawan to emerge as the next Number 3 citizen tomorrow. I’m looking for votes not endorsements – Ndume Meanwhile, Ndume said as a contender for the Senate President’s seat, all he was after were votes of his colleagues on the floor of the Senate and not endorsements outside. “Well, I’ve said it before that I am not looking for endorsement but looking for votes on election day. “You know clearly that there is difference between endorsement and election. You would recall too that in 2015 that story of endorsement was canvassed. He has the endorsement but what happened on the floor of the Senate was different. This kind of thing has been there all along, we have seen endorsements against several elections. “We are there already and shall become past in question of hours from now. I believe that my colleagues  shall vote according to their conscience and they shall vote for a candidate that is more suitable for the position of the Senate President,” he said. “I do my numbering too; but I do my numbering not by publishing my colleagues names,” he said. Uncertainty over deputy senate president But the APC had remained silent on the position of deputy Senate president, a development that has made five senators of the party from four different geopolitical zones to be in contest for it. Those in the contest are Kabiru Gaya (Kano, North West), Francis Alimekhena (Edo, South South), Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta, South South), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia, South East) and Ajayi Borofice (Ondo, South West). So far, none of the five contenders has indicated interest to forego his ambition. For example, Gaya told journalists that although he was ready to respect APC’s zoning arrangement on the position should the party do so between now and Tuesday, he was still very much in the contest. Gaya said he was 100 per cent behind the aspiration of Lawan as Senate president and that he was still in the race for the seat of the deputy Senate president. “I’m here to declare my support for the candidature of Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan as Senate president and I hope to be his deputy, Insha Allah,” Gaya said. “Our zone should be recognised because we gave the APC over six million votes. We talk of ranking among senators, and in the North West I’m the most ranking senator. “If the party comes up with zoning arrangement for the position and it doesn’t favour my zone, I’ll abide by the arrangement. I have no reason to quarrel with my party, because I’m a loyal party man,” he said. On his side, Alimikhena said he would not back out of the race. Alimikhena, the Deputy Chief Whip of 8th Senate, said the insinuations in some quarters that he had backed out of the race were not true. He said: “I am still in the race. I have not stepped down for anybody. How will I step and who will I step down for? I am a ranking senator, a principal officer of the 8th Senate, an experienced personality who had served on various ad-hoc committees in the just concluded Senate.” Namdas, Onyejeocha step down for Gbajabiamila Also yesterday, two front line contenders stepped down for the House Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos). Abdulmumin Jibrin ( APC, Kano), Director-General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase Campaign Council, who announced this at the affirmation ceremony of the Gbajabiamila/Wase Joint Ticket in Abuja yesterday, gave the names of the contenders as Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa) and Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC, Abia). According to him, the contenders “stepped down unconditionally” for the interest of collective responsibility for nation building. ‎He added that over 60 other lawmakers from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), led by Patrick Asadu (PDP, Enugu), have also endorsed Gbajabiamila and Idris Wase for Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively. “I want to inform you that five contenders have already stepped down for Gbajabiamila and Wase. Also worthy of note is that the PDP caucus from the South East have endorsed Gbajabiamila. Yet, the good news is that they all did that without any attached condition,” Jibrin said. Namdas, who was present at the ceremony acknowledged Jibrin’s submission; however, Daily Trust could not reach Onyejeocha, who was absent, to verify if she has actually quit the race, and on what terms. The latest development brings to five the number of contenders that have stepped down for the fifth term Lagos lawmaker, thereby narrowing the contest to a three horse race among him, Umar Bago (APC, Niger), and John Dyegh (APC, Benue). The three other contenders who stepped down earlier include Aliyu Betara (APC, Borno); Sada Soli (APC, Katsina); and Segun Odebunmi (APC, Oyo). In their separate speeches, Gbajabiamila and Wase promised to engender a 9th House where the “opposition will be proud to be in the opposition, not just for the sake of opposition.”  NASS leadership: APC governors back Lawan, Gbajabiamila N/Assembly leadership:Saraki, Dogara dare APC Group backs Lawan, Gbajabiamila for NASS leadership Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin