A Nigerian Army lawyer, Major Ajibade Azeez Atobatele, of the Directorate of Army Legal Services, studying in the United Kingdom, has made the country proud. He distinguished himself by finishing with a distinction in International Human Rights and Terrorism Law, coming top in his class. The Nigerian Army officer also bagged the Best Dissertation Award of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, University of Lancaster, one of the top 10 universities in the United Kingdom. He was honoured at the convocation ceremony of the University, which was held in the UK. Attesting further to Atobatele’s brilliant academic performance, the Director of Postgraduate Programmes in the Lancaster University Law School, Prof. Sigrun Skogly, confirmed, in a letter written to the Nigerian Embassy in London, that the Army officer performed exceptionally well and achieved the highest mark of his cohort – a mark she described as rarely awarded by the university. The Law School further confirmed that Atobatele had been offered a doctoral degree admission in order to further his research on legal issues surrounding the war against insurgency in Nigeria. Indeed, this development has been described as a confirmation of the efforts of the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and those of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, who believes that the war against Boko Haram is not only to be fought in the battle trenches, but also on the intellectual sphere. Not only that, this development has also substantiated the recent claims by the Defence Headquarters that serious steps were being taken by the military and other security agencies to ensure that in any operation, human rights issues must be held sacrosanct and that in all her institutions in the country, from the lowest to the highest, the importance and essence of human rights laws during armed conflicts are taught.  Army officer bags distinction in UK varsity Nigerian army officer, Major Atobatele bags distinction award in UK University Who is who in Buhari’s final ministerial list? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin