Justice P. I. Ajoku of a Federal High Court sitting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, yesterday, struck out a case challenging the eligibility of the candidate of APC, Prince Musiliudeen Olaide Akinremi, to contest the February 23 National Assembly election in Ibadan North Federal Constituency. A certain plaintiff, Stephen Johnson, who took the matter before the court had prayed the court, through his counsel, Sheu Popoola-Taiwo, a Lagos-based lawyer, to disqualify Akinremi, alleging that he (the lawmaker) was sometime in 2013 convicted in Liberia. At the resumption of the definite hearing of the matter with suit number FHC/IB/CS/138/18 instituted in November, last year,  Popoola-Taiwo represented by Jimoh Bamgbala told the court that the plaintiff had instructed that the matter be discontinued. A counsel said the withdrawal was not unconnected with the fact that the plaintiff had realised that there was an appeal setting aside the guilty verdict entered by jurors in Liberia which ordered a fresh trial of alleged contractual breaches on Akinremi and others in Liberia. The plaintiff ostensibly withdrew the matter based on the fact that there was no evidence. A document from the Republic of Liberia, Ministry of Justice titled, “Liberia Anti- Corruption report regarding the alleged fraud relating to the proposed purchase of uniforms for the emergency response unit of the Liberia National Police in October, 2009, had declared that there was no sufficient evidence to prosecute the defendant and all others who are implicated in this alleged fraud.  NYSC certificate: Communications minister knows fate today Certificate of Return: Okorocha storms court in Abuja Okorocha storms Abuja court over certificate of return Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin