The Joint Sector Review (JSR) says Nigeria’s agricultural sector showed eight institutional performance improvements in the Comprehensive African Agricultural Rural Development Programme (CAADP) in 2018. The JSR made this known during its presentation on Thursday in Abuja at the national workshop on agricultural joint sector review, biennial review report and the Second National Agricultural Investment Plan (NAIP). The JSR, anchored by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), with six critical stakeholders, showed that the agricultural sector recorded improvement in Comprehensive African Agricultural Rural Development Programme (CAADP). The areas cited by the JSR were policies, support institutions and human resource, people engaged in agriculture and access to financial services, inclusive institutionalised mechanisms for mutual accountability and peer review. The review also listed public agriculture expenditure as a share of total public expenditure, annual growth of agriculture output and increase of agricultural value added per arable land. The eight improved performances were the increase of supplied quality agriculture inputs to the total inputs requirements for agriculture commodities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Joint Sector Review process facilitates the National Agricultural Investment Plan and the Biennial Review Report for Nigerian agriculture. The performance review was essentially aided by targets specified in the frameworks of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), the Agricultural Promotion Policy (APP) and CAADP. In terms of funding, the review said agriculture’s contribution to grow domestic product at 24 per cent was still at a remarkable level.  (NAN)  Traders want open monitoring mechanisms on agric policies AU holds conference on agriculture ‘Food security fund bill can enhance farming’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin