An Igando Customary Court in Lagos on Tuesday dissolved a four-year-old marriage between a businesswoman, Mrs Lydia Nwaru and Daniel, over his refusal to work. The petitioner told the court that her husband, Daniel, with whom she had a daughter, wanted to be a ”househusband”. Delivering his ruling, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, President of the Court, held that the repeated refusal of the respondent to appear in court would not stop the proceedings. “Throughout the duration of this case, the respondent refused to honour court processes, in spite of being served with all court processes.” “Therefore, the court has no other choice than to dissolve the marriage. “The court pronounces the marriage between Lydia and Mr Daniel Nwaru dissolved. Both parties henceforth cease to be husband and wife.” “Each of you should go on his or her separate ways. The court wishes both of you well in your future endeavour,” he said. Koledoye awarded custody of the only child of the marriage to the petitioner. He ordered Daniel to be responsible for the child’s upkeep and education, whenever the need arises, and when he is gainfully employed. Earlier, the petitioner said: ”my husband is not ready to do work. He prefers to be a stay at home dad. “Whenever I complain about his idleness, he turns it to fight.” ” I have been responsible for the upkeep of the family, including school fees and rent”, she said. She said that she raised N120,000 for him to start a business but two weeks after she gave him the money, he did not do or say anything concerning the money. “I gave him another N86,000 to register for a job; the money went into nothing. “Thereafter, he started complaining that Nigeria was not suitable for progress; that he wanted to travel abroad to hustle,” she added. (NAN) Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin