Ethiopian Airlines has expressed readiness to assist Nigeria in setting up its national carrier while saying it will double its contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the Ethiopian Government from the present five per cent to 10 per cent by the year 2025. The Managing Director of Ethiopian International Services, Mr. Esayas Hailu spoke to journalists who were on a tour of the airline’s facilities in Addis Ababa on Tuesday. He said the airline group plans to double the contribution to GDP by the year 2025. He spoke in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital when the group hosted a group of journalists. Hailu said as Nigeria attempts to bring back its national carrier, it would not hesitate to assist, adding that it has been selected by the Chadian and Ghanaian governments to help set up their national carrier. Making reference to the International Air Transport Association (IATA) figure, he said African carriers presently contribute three per cent of global air traffic. According to him, 80 per cent of passengers in Africa were airlifted by non-African airlines while just 20 per cent was left for the African carriers. He is however optimistic that the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) which recently took effect would address the shortfall and create more opportunities for African carriers. He said, “SAATIM is a very good solution for Africa to put its act together to thrive. SAATM is the best thing that has ever happened to Africa because Air Traffic Connectivity is a fuel for economy, cultural exchange, people going and coming for tourism, peoples and goods and economic transactions.” We will collaborate with Nigeria on national carrier – ET Ethiopian Airlines orders 59 more aircraft Nigeria Air Project: We are ready to offer support, says Ethiopian Airlines Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin