The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), through its lawyer, Chief Anthony Idigbe (SAN), has opposed an application for joinder, in a suit before a Federal High Court Lagos, by two chief executive officers of Oando Plc, seeking rights enforcement. The suit was filed by the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Oando Plc, Mr Adewale Tinubu, and his Deputy, Mr Omamofe Boyo, seeking enforcement of their fundamental rights. On May 31, SEC had ordered the applicants and other affected board members to resign, over some alleged infractions. Further on June 2, SEC announced that it had set up an interim management team to be headed by Mr Mutiu Sunmonu, to oversee the affairs of the company and conduct an extraordinary general meeting on or before July 1. It said the new board of directors would subsequently select a management team for Oando Plc. Dissatisfied with the SEC position, the applicants raised concerns that the alleged infractions and penalties were unsubstantiated, ultra vires, invalid and calculated to prejudice the business of the company. They consequently, approached the court by way of an exparte application on June 3, seeking an interim order restraining SEC from giving effect to its decision. Justice Mojisola Olatoregun on same date, granted the interim orders. The court restrained SEC, its servants or agents from taking any step concerning the commission’s letter dated May 31 in which it barred the applicants from being directors. The court also restrained Sunmonu from acting as head of Oando’s interim management team, pending the hearing and determination of the motion. The court also urged parties to maintain the status quo pending the determination of the motion on notice. The main suit was consequently, assigned to Justice Ayotunde Faji, who on June 13, set down hearing for June 24. At the resumed hearing of the case yesterday,  Mr Tayo Oyetibo (SAN) appeared for the applicants, while Chief Anthony Idigbe (SAN) appeared for SEC. Meanwhile, Mr Yele Delano (SAN) announced appearance as representing Oando. He expressed the company’s intention to be joined in the suit as well as seeking a consolidation of similar suits pending before the court. He also sought an adjournment to enable him file his processes in the suit. In response, counsel to SEC (Idigbe) raised opposition to the request for joinder, on the grounds that it would predetermine the respondent’s case. He said: “My Lord, this matter was adjourned today for hearing and I am prepared to go on.” He argued that the issue of consolidation of the cases is meant to accelerate the matter rather than taking it backward. Idigbe (SAN) also argued that where the court allows the joinder, it would have predetermined the case of the defence and therefore, urged it to refuse the application. On his part, Oyetibo argued in favour of the request for joinder and urged the court to allow the party seeking to be joined in the suit. According to him, if the court refused the application for joinder, and the party goes on appeal, them he, the applicant, will be affected. He therefore, urged the court to take a favourable look at the application for joinder, so that progress can be made in the suit. In a short consideration of the issues, the court held that it was far reaching to think that the grant of an adjournment to enable a party file a motion, will be considered prejudicial to the defence. On that note, the court adjourned the case until July 4 to hear arguments on the motion for consolidation and  also fixed July 22 for hearing of the substantive suit.  Securities and Exchange Commission suspends Oando AGM Audit report: Oando, SEC in showdown over penalties SEC moves to quash court order restraining it from sacking Oando board, management Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin