Human rights activist, Dr Joe Okei Odumakin yesterday, joined other stakeholders in the war against drugs and human trafficking to describe drug abuse as worse than killers diseases such as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ( AIDS) and Ebola. Dr, Okei Odunmakin along with other stakeholders who spoke at an event organised by the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria (CRAN) to mark the World Day Against Drug and Human Trafficking with the themed ‘Drugs are Addictive, Escaping is Hard, Don’t Start’, unanimously agreed that all hands must be on the decks to fight drug abuse and human trafficking as they exterminate people more that killer diseases ,AIDS and Ebola. She said there is need to declare state of emergency on drugs and human trafficking as there were not enough hands to deal with the menace in the society. “Drug abuse is an abnormal use of drug and too much of everything is bad. There is a nexus between drug abuse and human trafficking as the recruitment is sometimes through drug abuse. The government and Nigerians should declare a state of emergency to the killer diseases that kill faster than AIDS and Ebola. To overcome drug abuse and human trafficking, one needs to deal with the triggers which sometimes come in form of boredom, depression, loneliness, anger, rejection, anxiety and stress. We can replace these bad habits with good habits like sports. Mrs Helen Onwuzuwike, a Contoller of Immigration, who represented the Controller -General of Immigration, Muhammad Babandede, said it has been observed that more people are going into drugs which breed crime in the society. “Drug abuse leads to suicide which is happening at a high rate in the society. Adult and even children are not left out. We should fight the war against the two killer diseases with our whole heart and every resources and information available to curtail it.   ‘Human and not commodity’ NGO alerts stakeholders on sexual abuse of IDPs Narcotics seizures up as drug use spikes Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin