Governor Muhammad Inuwa-Yahaya of Gombe State has approved the immediate dissolution of boards of parastatals and termination of appointments of director-generals and chief executive officers of department and agencies in the state. A press statement, signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Ismaila Uba Misilli, said the governor had also approved the disengagement of all political appointees of the immediate past administration of Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo. According to the statement, the affected persons were directed to handover to the permanent secretaries or most senior officers in their respective ministries, departments or agencies. “Also, all the caretaker chairmen of the 11 LGAs that are yet to handover to secretaries of their respective LGAs as contained in Governor Inuwa-Yahaya’s inaugural speech, are hereby directed to do so with immediate effect,” he said. However, Misilli said the chairmen and members of statutory boards are not affected by the directives. The governor also approved the constitution of seven-member committee on the recovery of government properties improperly disposed off by the Dankwambo’s administration from March 10, 2019. The committee, to be chaired by Air Commander Peter Bilal (rtd), has Dauda Bakari Zambuk, Usman Shamaki Mohammed and representatives of Police, DSS and Civil Defense as members, while Barrister Obel Yaji will serve as secretary. Governor Inuwa-Yahaya, in his inaugural speech, had suspended all allocations made by the past administration from the day he (Inuwa) was announced as winner of the 2019 governorship election. The terms of reference of the committee, as contained in a statement issued by Ismaila Misilli, are; to investigate the propriety or otherwise of disposed government property from March 10 and determine the process followed in the disposal of the property. The committee is to recover property found to be improperly disposed, “and make any other recommendations it deem necessary that will forestall future occurrence.” Inauguration: Gombe’s Inuwa Yahaya sworn-in, cancels Dankwambo's last minute appointments, contracts Governor Mohammed disengages all political appointees in Bauchi Jigawa: Gov Badaru dissolves cabinet Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin