The Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu, has dismissed Dr Doyin Okupe’s assertion that Northern leaders frustrated former President Olusegun Obasanjo from recognizing June 12 as Democracy Day. Okechukwu, while reacting to the assertion on Friday , said that Obasanjo was more preoccupied with his plan to actualise his third term ‘pet project’ He said, “It is arrant nonsense to say that Northern leaders frustrated Obasanjo from recognising June 12. Baba was solely engrossed with his pet project – the 3rd Term. He loathed MKO Abiola from their childhood days in Abeokuta. He was busy weaving his life president project.” “How can somebody revise the history of a former autocratic president who captured National Assembly, was changing Senate President like rapper? Obasanjo held the governors under bondage, muscled the press and used the EFCC as attack dog. Who on earth could have stopped him if he wanted to declare June 12 Democracy Day?” he asked. The chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) said, “Whereas I agree with our big brother Omoba Doyin Okupe that Nigerian politics is so intricate; however one disagrees that Obasanjo only avoided the controversy and furore that would have greeted recognising June 12 as democracy day, while in office.” ”Nobody could had stopped him, he ran an imperial presidency. I doubt if he was not in league with the annulment. Abiola narrated to us at Aba, how Obasanjo envied his capacity to pay his primary school fees from the local entertainment band he used in raising money. Abiola slept with us that night at Aba after the campaign.” Why Obasanjo did not honour Abiola — Okupe How Jonathan and Obasanjo fell apart 2019: Can Obasanjo’s romance with Yoruba leaders stop Buhari? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin