Aristóbulo Istúriz is the Vice President of Social Affairs of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. He was recently in Nigeria on the invitation of President Muhammadu Buhari for the June 12 Democracy Day celebrations. During his visit, he spoke to Daily Trust Saturday on the current situation in his country. Excerpts: Daily Trust: Your country has been in crisis lately, has Nigeria been of support in any way? Vice President Aristòbulo Istúriz: Nigeria is a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and has been in support right from the beginning.  Nigeria as a country has been helpful alongside many other African countries such as Angola, Namibia and South Africa. Nigeria has been extremely supportive in showing solidarity with Venezuela and protesting against what is happening in our country. Nigeria has come out severally to voice out how it feels about the sanctions the United States is imposing on Venezuela. Nigerian organizations and workers have come out even on social media to stand with Venezuela. Most African countries know the truth of what is happening in Venezuela and are against it. Every country has the right to choose what and who they stand for, and Venezuela is very grateful that Nigeria chose to stand with the Venezuelan people. Every country has the right to diplomacy and their own democracy, Venezuela is no different. DT: You said most African countries know what’s happening in Venezuela. What do you mean by that? Istúriz: It’s very important to be wary of information you see and hear in the media. There are groups that manipulate and give false information on the situation. Social media is extremely vast, and anyone can and log on and spread whatever they like to mislead people. It’s only the people who are there, or have seen what the situation on ground in Venezuela is like that can give you the truth of what’s going on. So I advise people to be very careful with what they hear and believe. DT: Looking at the current situation in Venezuela, how do you imagine it ending? Istúriz: Venezuela has a lot of resources, but it has been blocked by the US. If only they would lift the sanctions that have denied us access to our financial assets, the amount of money trapped in those accounts would go a long way in alleviating the situation since its what we use to by food, medicine and a lot of other things for our people. DT: Is Venezuela ready to talk with the US? Istúriz: That’s precisely what we want- dialogue. We are ready to sit down and talk whenever they are. The only way to solve this is through dialogue.  Only talking will lead to a solution. DT: What have you enjoyed most in Nigeria? Istúriz: Everything. I haven’t experienced anything negative about Nigeria. I have enjoyed my visit very much, and the solidarity shown by the people of Nigeria has been really touching. DT: What Nigerian dish have you tried and enjoyed? Istúriz: I’ve had many different dishes, especially soups. But the food is too pepperish for me. Nigerians like pepper too much. We are open to discussions with US – Venezuelan Vice President We are open to discussions with US – Venezuelan VP Umeadi joins board of World Jurist Association Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin