The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s speech on the occasion of Democracy Day celebration was full of false performance claims. PDP in a statement, yesterday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the president had no words of hope for the victims of escalated insurgency, kidnapping, banditry and bloodletting in various parts of the country. “It is sad that on a day like this, Mr. President dwelt on false performance claims and had no soothing word for millions of compatriots that have been subjected to the worst form of economic misery, that they are now resorting to suicide and slavery mission abroad,” the party alleged. “How can this administration superintend over a democracy day celebration when it has questions of constitutional violations, electoral manipulations, media clampdown, victimization of opposition, emasculation of free speech, brutalization, arbitrary arrests and illegal detention, as already detailed in various reports, including those by the United States Department of State. “It is disheartening that the same electoral manipulation, violations and injustices for which the icon of June 12 Democracy Day, Chief MKO Abiola died, have brazenly taken centre stage under the APC misrule. “Today (yesterday), just like on June 12, 1993, our citizens are despondent, particularly over the rigging of the February 23, 2019 presidential election as their quest for a people-oriented and inherently democratic leadership to move our nation forward was frustrated, consequent upon which our party and our presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, are seeking justice,” the statement added. Buhari's budget presentation filled with false performance indices - PDP Buhari's interview confirms failure, incompetence in governance – PDP PDP to Buhari: Stop offering excuses, face challenge of governance Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin