Kwara state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has said he is determined to deliver his campaign promises to the people. AbdulRazaq said he is well aware of the high expectations of the people and is resolved to work for the people, especially on roads construction and other social infrastructure. “The state of our roads (in Kwara) is disappointing. This is particularly true of Kwara North. There is no road, for instance, to Gwanara especially now that it is raining and yet the contractor handling it is collecting money. That was why the previous administration was stoned (in Gwanara). We don’t want to be stoned,” AbdulRazaq said at the weekend at a meeting with top officials of the Kwara State Road Maintenance Agency in Ilorin. AbdulRazaq was referring to the attacks on the convoy of former Senate President Bukola Saraki and former Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed in Gwanara town where locals protested their decrepit road that had long been awarded but left undone, our reporter recalls. He said the contractors would only be asked to go if they fail to deliver on the administration’s development agenda and timeline. “Kwara people have woken up and if I don’t fix the road, they will protest. So, we will sit with the contractors. We are not sacking or removing them. We want to be proactive so they can do their job,” he said. AbdulRazaq deplored the condition of roads in the state, saying the new administration would partner with the National Assembly and the Federal Government on how to quickly fix them. AbdulRazaq directed the Ministry of Works to compile the list of roads that are in bad state so that the government can work out funding options for their rehabilitation. He said there’s need to move quickly to fix the potholes on the road. We'll end diversion of local government funds in Kwara – Abdulrazaq Kwara will work for all under me – Abdulrazaq Gwanara-Bukuro-Benin Republic road: Questioning Nigeria’s status as giant of Africa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin