An environmentalist, Egbemuyiwa Olatunji, yesterday, identified photocopiers, candles, air fresheners and insecticides as “killer agents” which contain substances harmful to human respiratory system. Olatunji who attributed photocopier and other household appliances as sources of indoor pollution, said their users are pruned to diseases like cancer, asthma, lungs and heart diseases. He spoke on Wednesday in Abeokuta while delivering a lecture titled “Indoor Air Pollution” at an event organized by Ogun State Ministry of Environment to commemorate 2019 World Environment Day. Olatunji said 72 per cent of Nigerians are exposed to house air pollution due to cooking with solid fuels. According to him, air pollution collectively reduced life expectancy by one year and eight months on average worldwide; stressing that copying machines and printers can harm air quality. “One study found that workers in photocopy centers stand at an increased risk of heart disease, and several studies had shown a link between photocopiers and sore throats, skin irrigation, asthma, and other health problems. Another study found that printer emissions are worse when toner cartridges are fuller, and when lots of toner is being used in a printing job. Another expert, Babatunde Lawal, who spoke on “Outdoor Air Pollution”, called on government to make policy that would regulate air quality in the urban area and set standard for air pollution for companies. He urged all and sundry to work together in order to combat the menace of air pollution. Earlier, the state’s Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Envornment, Mrs. Yetunde Dina, noted that the state government has been doing its best to reduce air pollution with monitoring through taskforce. Dina represented by Director of Special Duties, Pastor Bola Orekoya, said with the Ogun State General Environment Management (Miscellaneous) Provisions Law of 2004, the government has shut a number of companies found culpable of air pollution.   The silent rage of air pollution in Nigeria Tackling indoor air pollution World Environment Day: ‘Beat Air Pollution’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin