Chairman of the Association of African Maritime administrations (AAMA), Dr Dakuku Peterside has called on developed nations to support Africa to build capacity and regulatory enforcement needed to maximize benefits of ocean economy. Dakuku who made the call in Oslo, Norway at the commencement of the ‘Nor Shipping Conference & Exhibition’ yesterday noted that ocean industries can contribute to Sustainable Development Goals only when both developing and developed nations benefit in a sustainable manner. The High level ocean leadership meeting was organized by United Nations Global Compact and the Norwegian government at the residence of the Prime Minister of Norway. Dr Dakuku who is also the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) further pointed out that 38 of Africa’s 54 nations are either coastal or island states and are faced with the same challenges as other coastal states globally. He mentioned these challenges to include pollution, climate change, poor ocean governance, overfishing, insecurity and marine litter. He pointed out that “applying the same standards will ensure no one is left behind in our collective quest for clean and sustainable ocean that support economic prosperity. Responsible ocean governance and economic opportunities are not mutually exclusive but complementary.” The forum discussed the highlights of Global goals; ocean opportunities which is a report of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT as well as the UN  Global compact sustainable ocean principles that will be unveiled in September this year at New York. Maritime tourism can grow Nigeria’s economy – NIMASA DG Nigeria to partner other African countries on ‘blue economy’ ‘How Buhari is battling poverty’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin