From Abdullateef Aliyu, Lagos
T
he PDP in Lagos State, has challenged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to explain the delay in constituting his cabinet. Spokesman of the party, Taofik Gani, said Lagosians deserve an explanation for the delay in setting up the cabinet three weeks after taking over the mantle of leadership. According to the party, there is a seeming “stagnancy” in the running of affairs of the state due to the non-constitution of the cabinet. Daily Trust reports that since his assumption of office on May 29, 2019, the governor has made only three key appointments namely the Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff and Deputy Press Secretary. He also appointed a new General Manager for the state Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) just last week as well as Amirul Hajj for the 2019 Hajj exercise. Though, the state assembly all dominated by APC lawmakers has been constituted, the legislature has not received any communication from the governor. The PDP however took Sanwo-Olu to task, decrying what it called his “lack of coordination” since assuming office. The statement rejected the governing of the state like a sole administrator. The Lagos PDP consequently suggested to the State Assembly to summon the governor to explain why it has failed to constitute the cabinet. Deputy CPS to the governor, Mr Gboyega Akoshile, told the PDP that there was nowhere in the constitution where a timeframe was stipulated got the constitution of the cabinet. He however assured that “highly qualified and competent men and women will be appointed as commissioners by HE Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.” PDP challenges Sanwo-Olu over cabinet PDP gives Sanwo-Olu seven days to declare assets publicly Cracks in Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement by opposition parties Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin