The Fulani and Berom living in several communities of Gashish district in Barkin Ladi local government area of Plateau state have dined and wined together to mark relative peace achieved in the district. The feast was organised by the Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) – a multi-security taskforce, saddled with the responsibility of restoring and maintaining peace in the state. Daily Trust gathered the event took place during the weekend at Pilot Science Secondary, Kakuruku in the District of Gashish. Daily Trust observed that food, snacks and drinks were shared, just as different cultural troupes performed during the event. Speaking at the event, the Commander of Operation Safe Haven, OPSH, Major General Augustine Agundu, reiterated that his command would do both stick and carrot approach until long lasting peace is achieved in the state. It would be recalled that several communities in Gashish district have suffered attacks making the district one of the most troubled districts in the state. Last year June 24th, it was reported that about 200 persons were alleged to have been killed in the attacks on about 11 communities of the district. A serious peace meeting under OPSH was held for the warring parties – Fulani and Berom and since then the communities in the district were enjoying relative peace. In his remarks, Ardo of Gashish, Idris Gidado, called on the tribes in the district to live with one another in peace. He said, “We are all one, we were created by God and our Father is Adam, from Adam and Hauwa’u we multiplied, some were in Europe, some Africa and some in Asia, “Some were Hausa, some Fulani or Berom or Yoruba, therefore we must live in peace with one another,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the District Head of Gashish, Da John Dalyop, called on government to build some of the homes that were destroyed during last year’s attacks. Mr Dalyop, who was represented by one of his kinsmen, Mark Wide, also tasked Fulani and Berom youths on forgiveness and living in harmony. Berom, Fulani monarchs sue for peace Miyetti Allah accuses OPSH of destroying 400 Fulani homes in Plateau OPSH replies COCIN: We have men in Gashish Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin