Chairman of Kuje Area Council Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo has promised to collaborate with security agencies to ensure a safer and crime free area council. Sabo stated this when he paid a familiarization visit to security divisions in the council, yesterday. He said the familiarisation visit was also to afford him the opportunity to ascertain some of the challenges they were facing, especially in the area of protection of lives and property of residents of the area. “It is obvious that there are some challenges faced by our security agencies and I want to assure that very soon, it will be a thing of the past as this administration will do everything in its power to address them,” he said. The Kuje Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Harrison Oruruo, who received the chairman in his office, said the division was facing the challenge of lack of patrol vehicles. He also said the division needed to upgrade and establish outposts in areas with difficult terrain. He also called on traditional rulers to form vigilantes in their various domains to assist the force in fighting crime. The DPO enumerated the functions of the corps to include protection of national and critical assets and registration of vigilante group. He assured the chairman that the men and officers are always on ground to also support the administration in achieving its vision and mission to the good people of Kuje. The chairman also visited the Kuje divisions of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC),  Nigerian Prison Service (NPS), Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Vehicle Inspection Office ( VIO),) Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Federal Fire Service (NFS). BREAKING: PDP topples APC in Kuje, wins chairmanship election ‘We have taken measures to curtail security challenges’ Kuje chairman-elect sets 4-point agenda Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin