The power tussle between immediate past Bauchi State governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar and his successor, Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, came to a head on June 20, 2019. Their political brinksmanship was put to test leading to the emergence of two persons, Kawuwa Shehu Damina and Abubakar Suleiman Ningi, each laying claim to the seat of the Speaker of the 9th State House of Assembly.  Sequel to the APC primaries, former governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar and the party leadership made sure that only their loyalists got the ticket to contest for election to the State House of Assembly. This was seen as the first move to consolidate their grip on the members in order to do their biddings, Daily Trust on Sunday. Things began to fall apart when the former governor lost the election to Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed of the then opposition PDP. However, the APC had a clear majority at the State House of Assembly with 22 out of the 31 members while the ruling PDP has eight leaving the NNPP with one member. This composition placed the PDP and Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed at a disadvantaged position as the party could not field a candidate to vie for the Speaker because of its lack of numerical strength in the House. The PDP therefore had to form an alliance with one of the candidates and few members of the opposition APC to have their way. The party therefore decided to support a candidate that would work harmoniously with its executive, it was gathered. Consequently the PDP threw its weight behind Abubakar Suleiman Ningi, a fresher instead of the other two candidates, the immediate past Speaker, Kawuwa Shehu Damina and the former Majority Leader, Tijjani Mohammed Aliyu, representing Azare/Madangala constituency. PDP’s support for Ningi was believed to be a move to block the chances of Damina, who, as the Speaker of the 8th Assembly was instrumental to some perceived ‘negative policies’ of the immediate past administration including the two controversial bills passed to repeal an anti-corruption law and another one to create additional districts, hamlets and village areas. However, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that ex-governor Abubakar and the APC leadership mounted pressure on the other APC members to elect Damina as Speaker of the 9th Assembly, a move that threw the PDP camp into panic. Few days to the earlier slated date of Monday, June 17 a meeting was reportedly held in Kano where the APC members including the two other candidates were told to step down for Damina. The move was however thwarted when the inauguration was suddenly postponed to Thursday, June 20, which was condemned by the opposition APC. The party in a statement by its State Secretary, Alhaji Bako Hussaini, observed that the governor lacked constitutional powers to suspend the inauguration after a proclamation. It alleged that the plan by Governor Bala Mohammed and the PDP to impose an unpopular leadership on the House of Assembly had been hatched long ago. The APC alleged that the first move made by the governor was the removal and replacement of the clerk few days to the inauguration. It would be recalled that the clerk was replaced following the deployment of some Permanent Secretaries by the state governor about a week to the slated date of inauguration. The postponement was believed to have provided the PDP time to perfect its plans to bring in their preferred candidate from the APC and also clinch the seat of the Deputy Speaker which will give an almost total grip on the House leadership. A plan to elect the Speaker supported by the PDP was believed to have been perfected during the postponement. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that it was arranged that the eight PDP members, two from APC and the lone NNPP member will form an 11 member quorum needed to elect the Speaker and his deputy. Part of the plan was also to fool the other APC members on the time slated for the inauguration on Thursday. It was also alleged that the member representing Warji, Yunusa Ahmed, was preferred by Governor Bala Mohammed but that he turned down the offer, saying that he cannot betray his party. The member was said to have contacted his other colleagues who insisted that they would stick to the agreement reached at the Kano meeting to elect Damina as the Speaker. His rejection prompted the decision to settle for Abubakar Suleiman Ningi. The D-day On the day of the inauguration, the 11 members loyal to Governor Bala Mohammed elected Abubakar Suleiman Ningi of the APC as Speaker and Danlami Ahmed Kawule of the PDP as Deputy Speaker. Twenty members loyal to the former governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar also elected Kawuwa Shehu Damina as Speaker at a separate inauguration. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that Governor Bala Mohammed, after his election lobbied the APC through some emissaries not to present Damina as candidate. He was said to have even tried according to reports, to personally persuade Damina to shelve his ambition but that did not work. The 11 members who elected Ningi as the Speaker reportedly arrived the Assembly complex as early as 6 am while the other 20 members supporting the immediate past Speaker, Kawuwa Shehu Damina were absent. Ningi was nominated by Babayo Muhammad representing Hardawa constituency and Jamilu Umar Dahiru, the only NNPP member who is representing Bauchi Central Constituency. His nomination was seconded by Bakoji Aliyu Bobo, member representing Chiroma constituency. In his acceptance speech, Ningi promised to ensure a cordial working relationship between the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary. “Under my leadership this House will ensure prompt and due checks and balances of the executive arm, through timely oversight functions, strict monitoring of budget implementation and other committee activities, “I want to assure you that the era of calling legislative arm as “rubber stamp” of the executive is over. I will use my experience as seasoned administrator, community leader and traditional ruler and that of the honourable members of this Assembly who distinguished themselves in different walks of life to ensure that the executive arm is up to its responsibilities and working for the best interest of Bauchi State. “Furthermore, I will create a very conducive and friendly atmosphere in this Assembly so as to have mutual understanding, respect, unity and cooperation between and among members and the staff of the House,”he said. The Damina faction backed by the former governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar held their inauguration at the Assembly premises at 11:15 am which was presided over by the member representing Warji constituency, Yunusa Ahmed. Ahmed nominated Damina and was seconded by the member representing Ganjuwa West constituency, Yusuf Inuwa Dadiye. Ahmed Tukur Ibrahim was elected as Deputy Speaker by the Damina led faction. Speaking after the inauguration, Damina said that they were given invitations to come to the inauguration by 10:00 am on Thursday, but they came before the time only to meet the place locked with security agents stationed everywhere. He said that they waited until 11:00 am and had no choice than to conduct their inauguration. Damina noted that they are not in conflict with anybody, adding that they conducted the inauguration in the best interest of the state and to uphold democratic tenets. Immediately after his election as the Speaker, Ningi and the other members loyal to Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed held a meeting with the governor at the Government House where they promised to work together for the development of the state. In a reaction, the State PDP chairman, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, said 14 members of the House elected the Speaker on the day of the inauguration because the APC has Nine members because of a Court ruling which gave a return certificate to its member representing Sade and they were joined by some APC members including the elected Speaker and the lone NNPP member. He also insisted that all the legally recognized processes of electing a speaker had been followed. However, the State organizing secretary of the APC, Lawan Gyan Gyan, while speaking to our correspondent on telephone on Friday said that the APC is studying the situation and will take its position on the matter. 2 Speakers emerge in Bauchi House of Assembly parallel elections 2 speakers emerge in Bauchi Assembly parallel elections Bauchi gov, predecessor disagree over assembly inauguration Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin