Following the expiration of a 30-day ultimatum given to the affected companies, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) said yesterday it would immediately commence demolition of telecommunication masts in different locations within Nigeria. Most of the telecom masts, it was learnt, belong to Globacom Nigeria Limited following a breakdown of negotiation between the company and the NCAA. Spokesman of the NCAA, Mr. Sam Adurogboye said the regulatory authority is left with no choice as the 30 – day ultimatum given to those telecommunication service providers has expired. Prior to the expiration of the ultimatum, he said letters of reminder were written to all affected organisations to obtain Aviation Height Clearance (AHC) for their masts. Daily Trust learnt that most of the telecommunication companies complied during the period of the ultimatum. The Regulatory Authority requires an Aviation Height Clearance (AHC) approval for every tower installation in the country irrespective of the height and location. It said while some of the providers and operators have since commenced regularisation of their masts, others have failed to do same. The authority listed the telecommunication operators who have not regularised their masts to include Globacom Nigeria 7,012 masts, United Bank of Africa 439 masts, Guaranty Trust Bank 295 masts, Unity Bank 217 masts and Sterling Bank 159 masts. Others are Union Bank 92 masts, First City Monument Bank 205 masts, Fidelity Bank 83 masts and Access Bank 303 masts. Therefore, a total of 8,805 masts belonging to the aforementioned organisations will be decommissioned forthwith, NCAA said. NCAA set to demolish 8,805 telecoms, bank masts Aviation authority shelves threat to demolish 7,000 telecom masts NCAA to demolish 7000 telecom masts, issues 30-day ultimatum Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin