The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has initiated moves to rejig the minority positions in the 9th Senate. Our correspondent gathered from impeccable sources at the PDP national secretariat, yesterday in Abuja, that the party had resolved to replace Senator Clifford Odia (PDP, Edo Central) with Senator Sahabi Yau (PDP, Zamfara North) as Deputy Minority Whip. The PDP had last week picked Sen Eyinnaya Abaribe from Abia State as Minority Leader, Emmanuel Bwacha from Taraba State as Deputy Minority Leader, Philip Aduda (FCT) as Minority Whip with Odia as his deputy. But Odia is to be replaced in the new arrangement. Daily Trust also learnt that the immediate past Senate President Bukola Saraki  is to lead a reconciliation team to pacify members of the party who would have lost out in the selection of the party’s leaders in the National Assembly. A source at Wadata Plaza secretariat of the party, told our correspondent that the decision of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) to replace Odia with Yau was informed by the need to reflect national character and spread in the minority positions in the Senate and the House of Representatives. “Accordingly, the party has resolved to appeal to Odia to, in the interest of the country, give up the position to the North West Zone. This is because the South South zone has two positions out of the eight positions while the North West zone was completely shut out,” he said. It was also learnt that the party had appealed to former Senate President Bukola Saraki to spearhead the effort to soothe ruffled feathers in Edo State where Ordia comes from. It was hinted that the choice of Yau, was partly due to the consideration and choice of Rep Kingsley Chinda of Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency in Rivers State as Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.  Zoning of N’Assembly positions throws PDP into fresh crisis Mark, Ekweremadu to lose senate positions Battle for NASS Principal Officers, ‘Juicy Committees’ Hots Up Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin