Former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun said yesterday that he is not afraid of any gang up against him by his political foes. Amosun spoke in wakes of his renewed feud with some chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) including the incumbent governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and former Governor Olusegun Osoba. Amosun who just returned to the country from lesser hajj in Saudi Arabia, spoke at his family house in Abeokuta, during a prayer session organised by the Muslim community led by the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Sheikh Liadi Orunsolu. He boasted that he would triumph over his  alleged traducers and political opponents. According to him, irrespective of the circumstances surrounding his exit from office, he was glad that “contractors are still carrying on with my projects, especially roads and flyovers.” Amosun said, “Please continue to pray for me. Somebody asked what I did to them, that they are many. I said how many are they? I said if they are 20 before, pray that I should handle 200 enemies. “Almighty Allah will overcome them. For me, I’m just doing my bit. I’m no God, I am human, I would have my faults but God knows and that is why I’m saying I’m at peace with my Creator. “When I came in Tuesday night, I saw what is happening. Everywhere contractors were working, they are still working because we paid them and we asked them to continue with the work. It does not matter; it is about Ogun State and I’m happy. “Today, to the glory of Almighty Allah, people are still working and we have paid them. They will continue to do the work until when the money they’ve given them is exhausted. So, Almighty Allah will continue to be with all of us. Please, we need prayers. Please, continue to pray for us,” he said  I'm not afraid of gang-up against me, says Amosun Vote Amosun despite what happened, Osoba urges Ogun APC members Inside Amosun, Oshiomhole’s endless verbal war Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin