Twenty four persons bagged first class degree at the 23rd convocation ceremony of the University of Abuja which held yesterday. Nine hundred and eighty two people also graduated with Second Class Upper degree,  2,498 Second Class Lower and 1, 085 got Third Class. Speaking at the event, President Muhammadu Buhari said his government would continue to look at issues raised by universities, especially on infrastructure. Buhari said it was in line with that, that he recently approved N208 billion for interventions through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund). The president, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Arc. Sonny Echono, said he would continue to improve facilities and funding through careful planning that would address deficiency in the education system. Buhari commended the university’s Vice Chancellor, Professor Michael Adikwu and the management team for stabilising and running activities in peace and harmony, saying, “it is an indication that the institution has put behind those things that interrupted the calendar in the past.” While congratulating the university for its contributions to national economy, he urged the graduands to seize the moment, embrace the challenge and use the knowledge and skills acquired in the varsity for the development of the country. The university also awarded honorary doctorate degree of Business Administration to Architect Amaechi Chiedu Ndili and Doctor of Letters to Barrister Salamatu Hussaini, CEO of Alkahli Foundation. The Emir of Zazzau and Chancellor of the university, Dr Shehu Idris, congratulated the graduands, saying, ‘‘you must deploy the knowledge acquired here in the most rewarding manner not just for yourself but for the benefit of society.” Buhari to spend N208b on infrastructure in universities 188 students bag first class honours at Covenant University 24 students graduate with first class in UniAbuja's 23rd convocation Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin