Ogun State Governor Prince Dapo Abiodun says he inherited a state treasury with “almost nothing” upon assumption of office on May 29. Abiodun who was silent on the amount he met in the state treasury, said he had to borrow money from his friends who were managing directors in some commercial banks in order to pay the salary of May, which he said was over N7 billion. He spoke, yesterday, shortly before he went into a closed door meeting with leaders of the APC at MTR Hall, Ibara Housing, Abeokuta. The governor, who said he could not describe “in the open the Ogun State that we inherited,” however, vowed not to make issues out of his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun’s actions or inactions. According to him, “we have by far, too many things to do than to begin to be bogged down by what someone did or what he did not do. “30th of May was our first day in office. And on the 31st, it dawned on me that it was the end of the month and we need to pay salary. “So, I called the Head of Service. I told him that we must pay salary. But he said to me that ‘you’re new in government and everybody understands that you just assumed office and we don’t have that expectation of you paying salary now. They (workers) will understand. There is very little or no money. We can talk to them.’ “But I told the HoS ‘either they are expectant or not, it is my promise to the people that salaries will be paid as and when due.’ So, I picked my phone and called my friends who are MDs at different banks. “I told them I need to pay salaries and this is the little I have; almost nothing in the state account. I requested for a credit facility to allow me to pay over N7 billion which is the state wage bill. That day, my intention was that maybe one or two will oblige me, but the five banks that I called obliged me,” he said. I inherited 'almost empty' treasury – Ogun governor Leaving it as you met it Leaving it as you met it Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin