Lagos State Police command has staged a massive onslaught against traffic robbers with the arrest of about 18 armed robbers from various parts of the metropolis in the last two weeks. The decision to wage war against in-traffic robbers may not be unconnected to the frequent attacks recorded in the state in recent times. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the arrest, said that the suspects were nabbed by officers on surveillance patrol of the various areas in the state. According to Elkana, worried by the frequency of attacks, the State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, introduced fresh strategy targeted towards tackling the menace of traffic robbery in Lagos State. He said that the strategy has paid off going by the number of arrest recorded so far within the last two weeks. He said that the surveillance team also recovered several firearms and ammunition within the period. He said: “On May 24, 2019, at about 5.30pm, surveillance patrol team from Ketu Police station, foiled a robbery attempt at Kosofe bus stop. The leader of the gang, popularly known as Gabazine, and two other members of the gang were arrested.  One Samsung phone snatched from a victim was recovered and handed over to the owner. On May 25, 2019, the same surveillance team on undercover operation at the same spot arrested two traffic robbery suspects attempting to rob some unsuspecting road users. Two jack Knives and a toy pistol were recovered. On the same date at about midnight, surveillance Patrol team deployed to Ketu bus stop, arrested two traffic robbery suspects, namely: Ayomide Ayobami and Taye Onofowokan, both living at Agboyi Ketu. One pistol with three live ammunitions and a jack knife were recovered from them. On the same date at about 1 a.m, surveillance patrol team attached to Festac Police station arrested one Bamidele Ogunbanjo, 30, at prayer Estate Amuwo Odofin. One locally made pistol with one live ammunition was recovered. Investigation is ongoing and all the suspects will be charged to court”, he stated  10 suspected traffic robbers nabbed in Lagos Two teenagers, 3 others nabbed over robbing in Lagos traffic Page 7 Thursday Sept 24 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin