The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Katsina State has alleged that Governor Aminu Masari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has no requisite educational qualification to contest the last governorship election. However, the APC said Governor Masari is educationally qualified to be the governor having won his previous election in 2015 before the last March election which he won again. In a chat with newsmen, PDP lawyer, Goddy Uche, SAN, said the governor’s full name of Aminu Bello Masari did not appear in all the certificates submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Uche said the certificates only bear “Aminu Bello”. He also said the certificates were also faulted for having different dates, adding that some of them have no reference or identification details. “The governor said he completed his primary school on its certificate in 1951. But his father however said his son was born in 1950. “There is no basis for the governor to even remain there, the certificate from England has no logo and a higher diploma, you can’t do that without diploma. These are clear before the court,” he said. In his reaction, the APC lawyer, Ernest Obunadike, waved the allegation, saying that Masari was duly qualified to contest the election which he won. Obunadike said, “Masari was a former speaker and governor of the state. We wouldn’t want to join issues with petitioners or anybody if it’s true they made such allegation before the press. The matter is before the court as such we don’t want to discuss it outside. “We prefer to test this issue at the court, let them prove it before the court. Once a matter is in court, you don’t discuss it this way. It is unfortunate for them to have done so,” he added‎. Katsina APC Guber: Masari and his unending travail 2015 Political Events in Retrospective Disquiet over APC, PDP ‘romance’ in Katsina Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin