The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said there is no crisis within its ranks or any form of division over the choice of the 9th National Assembly leadership by its members. The party said its members in the National Assembly would decide who led them without any interference. Speaking with our correspondent on telephone, yesterday, Mr. Ike Abonyi, Special Adviser on Media to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said the National Working Committee (NWC) was not compelling any of its lawmakers in the choice of the new leadership. He said, “It is incumbent on the lawmakers themselves to elect whoever they like. So, the national leadership of the party will not compel them to do otherwise.” He said the party was resolute in contributing to nation-building and ensuring that Nigeria became a better place for all. “Our members in the National Assembly will determine what happens and inform the NWC of their decision,” he said. Daily Trust reports that there was uncertainty on how the leading opposition party would on June 11 approach the selection of principal officers of the National Assembly including Senate president and Speaker of the House of Representatives considering what transpired in 2015. Senators Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe) and Ali Ndume (APC, Borno) who were the two leading contenders for the Senate presidency were reportedly reaching out to all senators for support without recourse to party linings. The situation is the same in the House of Representatives where Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos) and Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger) among other contenders were jostling for the position of speaker. APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership APC in a fresh row with N’Assembly leaders over principal officers PDP, INEC frustrating us at Rivers elections tribunal - APC 19 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin