Abubakar Suleiman Ningi and Kawuwa Shehu Damina, yesterday, emerged factional speakers of the Bauchi State House of Assembly through parallel elections. The first inauguration of the assembly held by 11 members loyal to Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed elected Abubakar Suleiman Ningi as speaker, while 20 members loyal to former Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar elected Kawuwa Shehu Damina as speaker at a separate inauguration. Bauchi Assembly has 31 members. APC has the majority with 22 members, PDP eight while NNPP has one member. Governor Mohammed won his election in March under the umbrella of PDP, and though his party could not produce the speaker, at least in the meantime, he reportedly wanted someone from the APC who had nothing to do with the former governor. The 11 members who elected Ningi as speaker, allegedly with the backing of the governor,  reportedly arrived the assembly complex as early as 6am; while the 20 other members supporting the immediate past Speaker Damina were absent. The 11 members included eight from PDP, the lone NNPP member and another from APC. They entered the assembly’s chamber a 7:57am and conducted the election under tight security provided by the Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and State Security Service (SSS). Ningi was nominated by Babayo Muhammad representing Hardawa Constituency; and Jamilu Umar Dahiru, the only NNPP member who is representing Bauchi Central Constituency. His nomination was seconded by Bakoji Aliyu Bobo, member representing Chiroma Constituency. Meanwhile, the Damina faction backed by former Governor Abubakar held their inauguration at the Assembly premises at 11:15am. It was presided over by the member representing Warji Constituency, Yunusa Ahmed. Ahmed nominated Damina, said to be enjoying the support of ex-governor Mohammed, and was seconded by the member representing Ganjuwa West Constituency, Yusuf Inuwa Dadiye. Ahmed Tukur Ibrahim was elected as deputy speaker by the Damina-led faction. Speaking after the inauguration, Damina said they were given invitations to come to the inauguration by 10am, yesterday, but they came before the time only to meet the place locked with security agents stationed everywhere. He said they waited until 11am and had no choice than to conduct their inauguration in the circumstance. Damina noted that they were not in conflict with anybody, adding that they conducted the inauguration in the best interest of the state and to uphold democratic tenets. Damina later adjourned the House sitting until Tuesday for plenary. Suleiman who was the first to emerge speaker had also after his acceptance speech adjourned the House sitting until further notice. 2 Speakers emerge in Bauchi House of Assembly parallel elections Crisis hits Bauchi House of Assembly as security agents fire tear gas, disperse APC lawmakers BREAKING: APC lawmakers elect factional speaker in Bauchi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin