Even as the Federal Government, through the former Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, carries on with the process of concessioning four airports, workers unions in the sector remain uncomfortable with the process and have, for the umpteenth time, rejected the proposal. The unions are also calling on the management and staff of FAAN to rise against the concession moves which, in their view, would imply a vote of no confidence on the management’s capability to manage the airports. The airports slated to be concessioned are Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos; Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja; Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and Port Harcourt International Airport. During a meeting with the new Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Hamisu Yadudu, the unions, including the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Nigeria Union of Pensioners-FAAN Branch and Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), tabled their demands. The issue of concession has become a thorny one in aviation even as the process has reached the procurement stage. National President of ATSSSAN Comrade Ahmadu Illitrus said there are better alternatives to attract foreign direct investment for the development of the nation’s airports. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi, said if possible FAAN’s nomenclature could be changed to Airport Company to run the organisation as a strictly commercial venture. Concession: Aviation unions give Minister 15 days to sack transaction advisors or face industrial action Aviation unions shut down airports over concession FAAN workers meet ICRC over airport concession Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin