The University of Lagos has denied a group, Concerned Stakeholders calling on the public to save the institution from sinking. The Concerned Stakeholders had in a publication in one of the national dailies called on the public to save UNILAG from sinking. A statement signed by the University’s Principal Assistant Registrar (Communication) Mrs. Taiwo Oloyede said that the signatories to the publication claim to be representatives of the entire interest groups of the University with members cutting across staff, parents, guardians, alumni, pensioners, taxpayers and other persons. “There is no group, formal or informal, of the University of Lagos that cut across the classes of persons mentioned in the publication. However, should the claim of the publishers be the case, it is expected that representatives of all the groups identified in the publication as stakeholders would boldly endorse the publication, but it was not so,” “Therefore, it is most unlikely that respectable members of the University community, as claimed by the publishers of the media content in view, should still dwell on matters already appropriately addressed by the University Council, the National Universities Commission, the Federal Ministry of Education and the Procurement Committee of the House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The report of the intervention of appropriate authorities on the so called Unilag crisis raised in the paid publication is in the public domain and thus available to all stakeholders,” she said. She therefore urged genuine stakeholders of Unilag and the general public to disregard the mischievous disinformation about the institution; saying, Unilag remains the University of First Choice and the Nation’s Pride. She added that no campaign of calumny can smear the hard earned image of the great citadel of learning. The University further assured that authors and exponents of the mischievous publication would be unmasked. The outrage in UNILAG Lufthansa partners UNILAG for Youth Impact Week Jos to  host ISFF Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin