A 29-year-old student of Waziri Umaru Federal Polytchnic, Birnin Kebbi, has committed suicide for what he described as his ‘financial misfortune’. The late student, whose name was given as Solomon Benedict, was said have mixed insecticide with yogurt and drank it. One of his friends, who spoke to our correspondent said “We noticed he was no longer uncomfortable. He was holding his tummy and we discovered he poured a portion of insecticide into his drink.” The late Benedict was said to have threatened to take his own life many times because of the financial difficulties he claimed he was passing through daily but his friends said they never took him serious. A femalefriend of the deceased, who pleaded anonymity said: “For sometimes now he has been telling me he would kill himself if his financial situation did not improve but I never believed he meant it. “I remember whenever he visited me in Jega he always lamented his financial situation and I would give him some money to transport himself back to Birnin Kebbi and he would tell me he would kill himself one day if his situation continued that way.” She said she was shocked when a friend called her from Sokoto to tell her that Benedict had committed suicide. Another friend, who claimed she once lived in the same neighborhood with the deceased in Zuru, said one of his brothers died in similar circumstances few years ago. She described the late Benedict as a good gospel singer. The Kebbi State Police Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Nafiu Abubakar confirmed the incident. “Yes,  we are aware of the incident. He committed suicide at Badariya area of Birnin Kebbi.” Final hours of New Nigerian staff who killed self Teenager confesses to stabbing student to death in Kaduna Kogi civil servant suicide: Couple was childless for 20 years before triplets Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin