Alaramma Ibrahim is a Zamfara State-born Qur’anic memorizer, who was arrested in Saudi Arabia over alleged drugs peddling. He spent two years in a Saudi prison. In a telephone interview with Daily Trust on Sunday from Saudi, Ibrahim said he was discharged and acquitted by two Saudi courts and has spent five months in Nigerian Embassy in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia waiting for the Saudi authorities to set him free. Ibrahim who has participated in national and international Qur’anic recitation competitions narrated how he was arrested after arriving Saudi Arabia for lesser hajj over two years ago.  You were arrested in Saudi Arabia over alleged peddling of illicit drugs. How did that happen? I was arrested by Saudi security officials about 30 months ago when I arrived for a lesser hajj via Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano. I was among the people sponsored by the Zamfara State Government for the lesser hajj. This is the fourth time I’m coming to Saudi Arabia for the lesser hajj. After we had landed at Jeddah airport, we then took buses to Madina. At Madina, I went to the mosque and performed Zuhur and Asr salats and then came back to my accommodation. I was preparing to go to bed, when suddenly I heard someone knocked my door. We were three in the room. We didn’t lock the door at that time. Three hefty men we believed to be Saudi security officials in mufti pounced on us. They quickly held us. One of them pressed me hard on the bed and firmly grabbed my hands. They ransacked the room and couldn’t find anything incriminating. They brought me downstairs in handcuffs and chains and bundled me in to a waiting vehicle. They took me to Medina police station where I spent about two days. They said my case should be treated in Jeddah. Did they tell you the offence you had committed? No one told me the offence. I was asking myself what might have warranted a crack down like this. Then from Madina police station, we proceeded to Jeddah and I spent about one week at the police station. It was during the interrogation that I learnt about what they were suspecting me of. They brought an interpreter and he told me in Hausa the authorities were suspecting me of importing illicit drugs into the country. I swore by Almighty Allah that I knew nothing about the said drugs. They confirmed that nothing was found on me, but they said that a bag tagged in my name showed that I brought the drugs. I told them again I knew nothing about it. Later they hounded me into prison where I spent about two months. They asked me whether I have a bag with a certain colour and consignment. I told them I knew nothing about the bag they were talking about. They said they found the bag tagged in my name and it was also containing some information about me at Jeddah airport. They said since I denied ever knowing about the bag they would take the bag for a forensic analysis if they should detect my finger prints, they would take whatever action against me. I said I have no problem with the forensic analysis. I even said they should look at their CCTV footage if they can find me even near the bag they can take whatever action they deem fit. What happened after the interrogation? They took me back to prison again and said they would take me to court later. I spent about 14 months in prison before the trial started. I told them that I memorized the Holy Qur’an apart from being a teacher. I partook in several Quranic recitation competitions both at national and international levels as such I will never take part in drug peddling. After about two months, the court in Jeddah discharged and acquitted me. The court said they found nothing incriminating against me from all the evidences tendered. We thanked Almighty Allah for proving my innocence. After the court discharged me, against our expectation that I would be set free, surprisingly, they drove me back to prison again. They said there would be an appeal in another court in the holy city of Mecca.  Again, I was discharged and acquitted. After the court discharged me for the second time, they took me back to prison again. They later notified the Nigerian Embassy that I would be handed over to them. I spent two years in prison and five months in the Nigerian Embassy now. What did they mean by handing you over to Nigerian Embassy, is the case over? No, they said the case is not yet over, but they handed me over to Nigerian Embassy on bail. Rumours are being peddled that you were framed up by one woman at Aminu Kano international airport, did you hear about that? I can tell you up to this time I have never seen the bag in question, not to talk about knowing one woman. It was reported that Zamfara State Governor, Bello Muhammad Mutawalle, had tried to intervene in the matter. What happened after that? Yes, Governor Bello Mutawalle had arrived here. He discussed with me on the matter. He also discussed with the officials of the Nigerian Embassy. The discussions were fruitful. I thank him a lot for the concern. Let me use this medium to appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari and all other concerned stakeholders to intervene in my case since courts have proved my innocence two times. For two and half years now I have not seen my family. Banditry: Zamfara gov to meet security experts in Dubai Alleged drug trafficking: Why Zainab was freed  by Saudi authorities Zainab Aliyu as a Metaphor Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin