A 28-year-old man who allegedly assaulted a prostitute in a bid to collect back N500 he already paid her for her services has been charged with assault. The suspect, Emmanuel Peter, allegedly committed the offence May 28, 2019 at about 00:10 hours at the Flower Garden (Hotel ), Ajiwe, Ajah in Lagos . The prostitute, Chioma Anowuru, informed the court that the suspect with his friend came to her room inside the hotel where she lives. According to her, the suspect paid her N500 for her services and she immediately undressed. Having seen her nakedness and touched her breast, the suspect was alleged to have demanded back the N500 he had earlier paid but the prostitute told the court that since she has undressed, he could not get a refund. The suspect and his friend were said to have blocked the door to the prostitute’s room, but the prostitute refused to give him back the money. After several warnings, it was alleged that the suspect forcefully collected back the N500 but not until he had battered the prostitute on her face. The prostitute, in the process, lost her tooth while the suspect fled the scene. The court was informed that the prostitute had in the same night, reported the matter at the Ajiwe police station, Ajah, after she had been rushed to the hospital for treatment. She informed the court that after the initial treatment, she was asked to come back to the hospital for further treatment, adding that it was on her way back from the hospital that she sighted the suspect and his friend. According to her, she had to get some members of the public to apprehend the suspect since the duo would likely over power her. In a one count criminal charge preferred against the suspect, police alleged that the suspect assaulted the prostitute by giving her fist blow on her mouth, thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 173 of the criminal Laws of Lagos State 2015. The suspect, however, pleaded not guilty. Magistrate Botoku, later admitted him to N50,000 bail while further hearing has been fixed for June 27, 2019.  Man arrested over disagreement with prostitute JUST IN: Police parade 'serial rapist' in Ogun page 46 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin