The Centre for Social Justice (CSJ) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to take urgent and practical steps to stop revenue leakages across board in all MDAs. The Lead Director of CSJ, Eze Onyekpere, said this in a “Preliminary Reaction to the Presidential Assent to the 2019 Federal Budget.” President Buhari on Monday signed the 2019 budget into law. However, the CSJ said while the President’s signing is a welcomed development, the late approval and signing, coming in the last days of the fifth month for a budget which should have started running in January, has huge implications for the economy considering that the budget plays a signaling role in identifying the priorities and policy direction of a government. He recommended the executive while moving expeditiously to start disbursing the funds for the implementation of the 2019 budget should consider commencing the 2020 budget process through the preparation of the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF). He said the government must take steps to break the cycle of late budget preparation, presentation and approval by getting the 2020 estimates to the National Assembly on or before September 2019. “Government must take all reasonable steps to improve peace and community engagement in the Niger Delta and increase oil production so as to meet or even surpass the 2.3mbpd target; take steps to stop revenue leakages across board in all MDAs. Review Petroleum Production Sharing Contracts as recommended in various Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative studies. This will bring in additional revenue of not less than $1.6bn every year. “Expedited passage and assent to the Petroleum Industry Bill for reforms in the oil and gas sector as this will also increase revenue available from oil and gas extraction. The President should give accelerated assent to the NASS reworked bill that took cognizance of his initial objections to the Bill; the President in collaboration with the legislature should take steps to reduce the cost of governance -the Oronsaye Committee Report is still relevant. “The Minister of Finance should stick to the accountability and transparency provisions of the FRA; The duties and powers exercisable under the FRA and the Finance (Management and Control) Act should only be exercised by officers and authorities stated in the two laws pending any amendment of extant laws,” Onyekpere said. Budget: CSJ tasks FG on MTEF, N203.38bn recovered loot Budget: CSJ tasks FG on MTEF, N203.4bn recovered loot Why Buhari must remove fuel subsidy — Economist Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin