The Gbong Gwom Jos, Jacob Gyang Buba, clocked 10 years on the throne on May 16, 2019. The paramount ruler, who is also the chairman of the Plateau State Council of Chiefs and Emirs, spoke to Daily Trust on Sunday on critical issues affecting Nigeria’s traditional institutions. He also gave insights into the crisis in Plateau State and the country, saying foreign Fulani groups and those dislodged from other parts of the country have succeeded in intimidating the locals into submission. The former customs boss also spoke on Governor Simon Bako Lalong’s recent action on his traditional stool. You have just clocked 10 years on the throne as Gbong Gwom Jos, what has been your experience, from the civil service to the traditional institution? It is honestly quiet an experience, and sometimes I wonder which one is more engaging, being in the service or as Gbong Gwom Jos. With my appointment as Gbong Gwom Jos, my plan of resting and engaging in my private affairs was disrupted. But all the same, as human beings we have our own plans but God has his own. I accepted it, believing that God has a purpose for calling me to the traditional stool. What were your most challenging moments in the last 10 years? The most challenging moments were the security issues. I came in 2009 when the security challenges were on. We have had some few moments of respite, but things keep coming on over and over again. We have done our best to collaborate with government and security agencies, but it is not only Plateau today, many states are involved in this insecurity. At the level of the Northern Traditional Council meetings and the National Council of Traditional Rulers we have come out with suggestions which we forwarded to government. However, we are not directly in government and government may have some other information that maybe superior to what we have. We are also not in a position to criticise government for inaction because we would not know for certain what information is available to them. But it has been challenging to see your people massacred or crammed in internally displaced persons camps. Sometimes they even look at you and think you are doing nothing. I am not the type who will shout in the media because I believe I have a responsibility to work with government. At the beginning of the present administration, the governor discussed with me and we set up committees between the Berom and Fulani communities. Each was told to produce a write-up on what their problems were. They both did and were requested to proffer solutions to the problems and they did exactly that. The committee engaged both parties and came up with a recommendation that government issued a white paper on in June last year, just before this horrific attack on Gashish district. We were satisfied with the common position between the Fulani and the Berom, but as we keep saying, it is one thing to proffer solutions and another thing to see it to fruition. Part of the recommendations was the setting up of the Peace Building Agency, which government did. And the agency has been up and doing; they have engaged us a number of times. When the incident of Gashish occurred, the Vice President came and we engaged him. The governor rightly recommended that a mobile police unit be located in Gashish, which will take care of the area. I remember the Vice President said that would be good because security has to be in place, otherwise the same thing would still occur if the people are left on their own. That is what we are still waiting for. Gashish is the base of the Nigeria Electricity Supply Company. They have empty houses, which the committee had spoken to them about and they surrendered as a base for the mobile unit. But I am not in a position to say why the mobile unit has not been located there yet. Every day you hear of complaints that one or two people have been killed or cattle rustled. Honesty, cattle rustling is criminal, and it is not restricted to any particular tribe or group. We evidently found that there is a confederation of different types of people that are involved in cattle rustling. The Fulani and Berom are all involved in it. In our meetings with security agencies, we told them emphatically to deal with anything criminal in the best way they knew. The destruction of farmlands and cattle killings should be subject to investigations and the perpetrators punished appropriately in accordance with the law. The Fulani have been with us for so many years. We grew up knowing them to be in our respective villages. And there have been mutual benefits because the local farmer would allow them to keep their cows on his plots of land, and of course they fertilised the farms for him, and when he was ready to farm, he moved them. Some of the Fulani were on transit, some stayed put, and eventually, you found that some locals had given them plots of land free of charge and they continued living together. But whether we like it or not, what has created a lot of tension today is not between the local natives and the Fulani who have been staying together. There are strange elements that have invaded Plateau State. They are foreigners, and are in different locations in the country. Some of them have been dislodged from their places. I make bold to say that the local Fulani that we are used to have been intimidated into submitting to these people. That is why there is violence. Would you say that these challenges are compounded by religious differences? All those attributing the crisis to religion are those that have commercialised religion, both in Christendom and Islam. Religion is a private affair and everybody has a right to worship God in the way they think. I have not read much about Islam, but I know it talks about peace. It does not say your neighbours must be Muslims. I know Christianity talks about neighbourliness in the same vein. In Christianity, anybody you interact with is your neighbour and you are required to care for that person. Religion is being brought in to cover the main issue, which is the fact that these invading people are looking for territories. There are some elements who may be cashing in to play the religious card, but I am convinced that there are more fundamental issues than this noise about religion. Personally, I’ve had so many Muslim friends since my primary school days in Laranto, Jos. In those days, during Sallan Layya you would see young girls carrying meat from one house or another. They shared with Christians and Christians shared with Muslims. But today, everybody slaughters his ram and keeps in his fridge. Recently, the Wazirin Katsina, Prof Sani Lugga, wrote a book he said was a letter to all Nigerians. In the book, he stated: “Let us Islamise Nigeria, let us Christianise Nigeria.” Looking at the content of that book, especially the quotations he used in making his point, I want to say, with no reservations, that few Christians have read the Bible like he did. And he is a Muslim who has also read the Quran. He has interacted with people up to the Vatican. This is somebody who cared to know the truth. When I read the book, I told him that we needed to print it and distribute. The Sultan of Sokoto has been financing the printing of the book. Let Muslims and Christians read the book and understand what religion is all about. The ordinary person views the traditional institution with reverence and believes that if they had put their words to worth, some of these things wouldn’t be happening today. That is the theory of it. I have often said that the moment elections are over, whoever the electoral body declares winner and is sworn in, in accordance with the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, becomes the governor. And we expect that the moment he is sworn in he ceases to be a party person but a father to all – the good, the bad and the ugly. But in Nigeria today, is that what we are seeing? You would recall that before the advent of a country called Nigeria, the traditional institutions held sway – they were the executive, the legislature and judiciary. Today, can we sincerely say that the traditional institutions are given their rightful place in Nigeria? The constitution of Nigeria does not even recognise the traditional institution, and we have no assignment attached to us. It is only the state government that talks about advice. Even the laws enacted in states that say we should advice on issues that have to do with traditional council administration are being violated. There is a difference between political administration and traditional council administration. Traditional council administration has always been in existence, political administration is a modern contraption. The Native Authority, which we call local government today, was a tier of government for the natives, and those native authorities were under the traditional ruler. There was Native Authority police, the prisons were under the control of the traditional rulers. Suddenly, in 1976 the local government reforms threw away, not only the baby and the bath water, but also the bowl. Can you tell me one local government in Nigeria today that has applied itself like in the days of the Native Authority? Would you advocate a constitutional provision that would clearly separate the roles of traditional rulers from politicians so that their roles are not usurped? We have to think about that deeply. I believe there are roles that should be ascribed to traditional rulers, but the manner of ascribing those roles is another thing. This is because if you just say constitutional recognition or roles, we must be careful not to subject the traditional institutions to litigations like we know it today. Without the constitution we had the traditional ruler, who had district heads, village heads and ward heads. In the days of taxation, each ward head gathered taxes from his locality, so he was very careful. If any new face came into that community he interviewed him to find out where he came from and what his mission was. The traditional ruler from where he came would attach him to somebody. If the village head needed to hear about it, they would go and tell him. And if the visitor was running any business, they would know how to tax him. That taxation, to me, was not just about revenue, it had a larger security content. When you know everybody in your ward you will know when a thief comes in. The Native Authority police was available to the traditional institution to interrogate you if they suspected you to be a thief. Today, we are in a community where you don’t even know your neighbours. How can traditional rulers play a more vital roles? Nobody invites us to any meaningful forum to discuss issues and implement them. We have written. And whenever we attend Security Council meetings in our states we speak about these things, but implementation is something else. For instance, everybody has a right to relocate to where they want; no doubt about it, but is there no due process for locating to a place? Can you just go and grab any empty space and begin to build a house there? What is worsening the situation is the lack of appropriate land administration laws in most states of the federation. The former governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang, came up with the concept of Greater Jos master plan. They had a retreat and I was invited and listened to the presentations. The consultant came up with the fact that a structure had to be put in place, including a planning office, etc. I listened and said if he (consultant) had a planning division under him, what would happen to the planning division in the Ministry of Lands and Survey and other ministries? It means the ministries would have to fold up, otherwise you are creating areas of contention and you will not know who to hold responsible for what. Everything I said was neglected, and over a year later, the governor came to my house, looking worried. He said the Greater Jos master plan had become bogus and nothing much had been done. And I asked: How can you have a Greater Jos master plan without a foundation? The state didn’t have a regional and urban planning law. The constitution says the governor of a state holds land in trust for the people; it has not eroded customary rights of ownership. The governor set up a committee, which by the grace of God I headed, with a lot of experts, town planners and many others. We came up with a law and regulations, but unfortunately, we couldn’t hand over to government before their time expired. At our first meeting with the present governor when he called traditional rulers during his consultations, I spoke to him about the need for a regional and urban planning law and told him about what we did during the last administration. But up to today, we don’t have a law. The present government came up with some reforms and policies in chiefdoms that have affected you directly. How do you feel about that? I had written to the government in April last year because the Judicial Commission of Inquiry report of 1994, during the military administration, stated that Jos belonged to Anaguta, Afizere and Berom. In 2001, Nicky Tobi and the Justice Ajibola Judicial Commission of Inquiry captured the same reality. During the administration of former Governor Joshua Dariye, there was an unfortunate crisis that led to the declaration of state of emergency and one General Chris Ali was brought in as administrator. He convened what is today called Plateau Resolves, under the chairmanship of the late Ngo Elizabeth Pam and people testified. That report still came to the same conclusion and government issued a white paper on it. In my letter, I requested that it was high time government set up a committee or used the state boundary commission to call on the people to come and prove their boundaries. But I never received any response from government. And so, I thought that before the governor embarked on that exercise we should have done the demarcations. I don’t believe it is government’s intention to redefine the boundaries of traditional institutions. To me, the last local government creation was a restructuring exercise. The guidelines specifically states that no district should be split between two local governments. We have Du district that is today split between Jos south and north. The Berom people protested, up to the seat of government. If I remember well, such a thing was done in the present day Kwara but was rectified, while that of Du district was never rectified. We have Kabong in Jos north, but it is part of Du district. Some of the kingmakers of the village head of Kabong are from Du, some are from here. If you check the records, the ward head of what is today called Anguwan Rogo, in Berom parlance is called Gural-lomajai. The ward head is a kingmaker, the ward head of Laranto is a kingmaker and other ward heads. Can the ward head of a place be a kingmaker if that location does not belong to them? That is why I suggested that if you say this is your boundary, prove it. We can do this peacefully. Taking another person’s land and putting it under somebody else is the only thing we are contending, not the promotion of the traditional rulers. The Anaguta people claim there is a Supreme Court judgement in their favour on the issue of land matters. The only Supreme Court judgement I am aware of is the one that was passed in 2009. A military administrator instituted a Justice Luke Emefor panel to look into contending areas, and the district head of Du then took the government to court, saying they didn’t have the power to do that. They lost. The issue of contention was not about land, but the powers of government to institute a judicial commission of inquiry. The judgement was very clear. He lost in the High Court and went on appeal, where he lost. He eventually lost in the Supreme Court in 2009. The apex court ruled that the state government had the right to institute a Judicial Commission of Inquiry. It did not talk about the report itself because it was not part of the contending issues. After that judgement, the government took that report and issued a white paper on it. When the then governor wanted to put up a Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the crisis, the Federal Government, during the administration of the late President Yar’adua, was also moving to do the same thing. The governor went up to the Supreme Court to challenge the authority of the Federal Government, but before the apex court even heard the case, coincidentally, it passed the 2009 judgement that knocked off the district head of Du, saying it’s the state that had the powers to institute a Judicial Commission of Inquiry and the Federal Government quietly backed out. The committee the late president put in place was turned into an administrative panel. That was when the state government put up the Justice Ajibola Commission of Inquiry. During the Ajibola commission, former President Ibrahim Babangida was summoned, but due to his state of ill health, he sent his lawyers, and a question was asked about a district being split into two local governments. Babangida admitted that they had a complaint about that, which he didn’t address up to the time he left office. But he thought it had been resolved by successive governments. Your relationship with the Hausa community in Jos was somehow mired in a kind of controversy, what is it like today? As I said, while growing up, I had a lot of Hausa friends. In fact, it was so good those in days that even when we were young boys in secondary school, you would see your Hausa friends come to your house and accuse you of not going to Church. Sometimes you would see us sitting on the veranda, waiting for them to finish their prayers. In my secondary school, some of us looked out for azumi (Ramadan fasting) time so that we could have a delight of the koko and kosai (pap and bean cake). In Government Secondary School, Kuru, on Fridays, the school lorry took the Muslims to Bukuru for Friday prayers; and of course, as Christians, the school’s assembly hall was sufficient for us to hold service. There was a small place carved out as a mosque where they held their prayers. There was no problem. There were Muslim students that offered Christian Religious Knowldge in WAEC and they did a lot better than a lot of Christian students. It didn’t stop them from being Muslims. I don’t understand the issues today; that’s why I don’t think we have a religious problem. It is the unlearned malams and pastors who are looking for relevance that are brewing these things out of nothing. I make bold to say that there is religious criminality in Nigeria. You have tried to address issues of alcoholism and drug abuse; how have your efforts paid off? Presently, I am the chairman of the committee set up by northern traditional rulers to make recommendations on the way forward on this drug issue.  Just a few days ago, we were discussing the innocent girl who came back from Saudi Arabia and who some people wanted to incriminate. That girl could have just died cheaply. I know that we have a serious drug problem in Nigeria and that has worsened the security situation. But starting from the basis, if you look at the constitution of Nigeria, liquor license is under the local government. And today, go anywhere and you would see that a place which used to be a sitting room is turned into a beer parlour. When their young daughter comes back from school, nobody asks her if she had eaten or what happened in school, rather, her mother will order her to bring bottles of beer for customers, and she obeys. By the time she is in JS3 or SS1 she is pregnant at home and the parents begin to yell and abuse her without realising that they brought that corruption into their sitting room. Are there people monitoring patent medicine stores and pharmacies? It is one thing to put up a law and another to monitor the implementation of the law. A lot of these patent medicine stores and pharmacies are depots. There is no difference between a residential and social area because there is no regional and town planning law. State governments have to support local governments to shut down all liquor outlets and patent medicine stores and start licensing them all over again. It should be a big revenue source. Some people will begin to talk about the rights of people, but rights that are destructive to Nigerians are no longer rights. How do you relax? I only relax when I am sleeping, but I do quiet some reading and writing. What is your favourite meal? I love good food. One thing I miss when I leave Nigeria is food. Palace expansion Gbong Gwom, Jos residents head for showdown Gbong Gwom, Let Sleeping Dogs Lie Fresh controversy trails relocation of Gbong Gwom Jos Palace Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin