The immediate past National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has exonerated himself from allegation that he created landmines that led to the various court cases bedeviling the state chapters of the party. The South-South State chairmen of the APC had on Friday disagreed with the Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Lawal Shuaibu’s claims that the actions of the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, were responsible for the multiplicity of court cases bedeviling various state chapters of the party. They said it was rather the landmines created by his predecessor (Odigie-Oyegun), who was bent on destroying the party before departing, that fueled the unfortunate situation. The chairmen vowed to resist any attempt to blackmail Oshiomhole out of office for standing against injustice that had hitherto been the hallmark of his predecessor (Odigie-Oyegun) which was the only legacy he left. Reacting, yesterday, in a statement signed by Chief Ray Morphy, his public affairs adviser, Chief Oyegun-Oyegun said the statement of booby traps was not only ludicrous and infantile but an attempt to dream up justification for the failings of the party under Oshiomhole’s chairmanship. He said Oshiomhole failed because he lacked not only the temperament required to run a political party but also the capacity to manage the different interests and tendencies that constitute a political party. The statement said Oshiomhole was degrading and de-marketing the party rather than seeking to bring more people on board, adding that he was chasing people out of the party with his ‘agbero style of engagement’ ‘as only a bad carpenter quarrels with his tools’. The statement also read, “He engages his mouth before engaging his mind. So, he offends party members. How does that constitute booby traps by Oyegun, the erstwhile chairman? “Already, the deputy national chairman has confirmed that Oshiomhole runs the party without recourse to the NWC. “He acts in direct opposite of decisions taken by NWC. No minutes of NWC meetings which in any event take place outside the party secretariat. “How would you not have crisis in states with the confusion that Oshiomhole created when he gave the states freedom to choose their methods of choosing candidates for elections? Much of the crisis in states arose out of sheer incapacity on the part of the current chairman. How does this Oshiomhole’s incapacity become booby traps by Oyegun? “Many party men were aghast at the unfairness and injustice meted them during the primaries process,” it said.  Real reasons Oyegun withdrew from APC chairmanship race Oshiomhole: South-South APC chairmen threaten Deputy National Chairman, North Calls for Oshiomhole sack opens new cracks in APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin