Mustapha Audu is a son of late Prince Abubakar Audu, a former governor of Kogi State, and winner of the 2015 governorship election before his death. A graduate of Computer Science and Software Engineering from the University of Glasgow in the United Kingdom, 37-year-old Mustapha has followed in his father’s footsteps, and is currently interested in the governorship of Kogi State under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this this interview, he talks on his plans for the state, and lots more. Daily Trust: You were formerly in the Young Progressive Party (YPP) before you made moved over to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Could you tell us why you decamped? Mustapha Audu: Firstly, I was never in the YPP. The truth about this is that I was the first person to declare. I declared my intentions to run on the second of January when there was no one else in the field except me. However, there were lots of attacks and threats on some of our supporters. We sat down and discussed with a few APC officials and we also had support from 19 other political parties. It was clear that we had to look for something that would work for us. Islamically, if you’re afraid for your life or your family’s or torture or you’re under threat, you can deny Islam as long as it’s still in your heart. God is okay with that. So, it’s a similar kind of situation. For the safety of my people, my family and the safety of everyone around me and those involved, we had to form some kind of alliance with the YPP and the 19 other political parties. But I have always been in the APC. I am APC through and through. These hands built the APC. You can’t build a house and when invaders come in; you take off and start elsewhere. You may leave the house, regroup, and come back with a larger force to take back your kingdom. So, this is pretty much a similar scenario. We worked for the APC, we built the APC and after victory, God called the patriarch of our family – the late Prince Abubakar Audu. Unfortunately, due to the political machinations in place, Yahaya Bello came to power and you can see the effect on the state and its people, simply because he wasn’t the one they voted for. So, appearing in another political party for a brief period of time ensured our safety and the safety of our supporters. However, for Kogi State right now, it’s not about party politics and what party you belong to, it’s about saving our people. So, we are taking everyone along regardless of any affiliation. The whole idea is that we are Kogites first and Kogi for all irrespective of party – that’s our motto. DT: Would you say your father’s career in politics shaped your decision to also run for governor? Audu: Basically, it was the old fashioned way of tutelage, where you sit down, witness, watch and understand. He didn’t directly say, ‘I want you to be a politician’ or ‘I want to you to follow in my footsteps’, no. I was in almost every meeting he had; I prepared documents for all the parties he was in during his political career ranging from AC, ACN and ANPP. I did a lot of things for him, especially door-to-door campaigning including the APC campaign. I did part of the ACN campaign in 2011. Before that, in 2007 and 2008, I was also by his side. So, I wouldn’t say he directly pushed me into this, but indirectly, it’s what I’ve been preparing for my whole life. DT: Considering the fact that the present governor is also a member of the APC, how do you plan to overcome the incumbency factor? Audu: It’s very simple really. First there is God, who is greater than all. After that, we know the only way forward is to make everyone a stakeholder in this project. The only way to do that is by doing direct primaries. We all know Kogi State is dying. So, no one who wants a better tomorrow would vote for the current government. Mr. President has said that he has ensured that this will be the cleanest election in Nigeria’s history and they are adamant that for the APC to retain Kogi State, they must field a candidate that the people love, and who has the best interest of the people at heart. Everyone has narrowed that down to just one candidate, which is us. So, we know that we’ll be displacing the current governor with ease. We know that the power of incumbency is strong, but it’s strong where you’re liked. DT: What exactly are your plans for Kogi State especially in the area of insecurity, a threat facing many states in the country? What will you do differently? Audu: Security is extremely important. But I think the idea of state police is a bad idea. I think state police will be one of the biggest disasters that will ever occur in Nigeria. I totally and utterly discourage state police because it will grant governors unlimited power and make them lords unto themselves. I’m running for the office of executive governor, we don’t need any more power than that. It’s enough. The issue of security is a basic one – lack of jobs. The amount of crime is directly proportional to the level of unemployment. There’s election violence in Kogi State, arms proliferation and this is all because of joblessness. If you have a job, why would you pick up a gun? So we need to arm our citizens with jobs. We will invest rapidly in job creation, especially for the youth. We have three main focuses – job creation, human capital development and youth and women empowerment. These will be the main focus of our government.  That doesn’t mean we won’t work hard to fix other sectors, but this is the 21st Century and we can’t get away with the same promises the generations before us made. DT: What are your plans for women and youth inclusion in your government? Audu: First of all, I have taken it upon myself to make sure that there is a 50 percent inclusion of women. Half of our cabinet will be women. Half of the entrepreneurs we’d support will be women. Half of the boards we’d appoint will be women as well. We believe that Kogi State is powered by our women. If you look at me, the secret behind me running for office and my success is my wife. I’d say that any day. Without women, the society cannot grow. If you look at any society and see the women prospering, then you can be sure the family is too. It’s in the nature of a woman to be more caring and carry along others. We are also aware that Kogi State has the highest rate of maternal mortality rate in Nigeria. It’s ridiculous. So these indices must be wiped out. Back in the day, a lot of the focus used to be on better life programmes and helping women in the household environment. We believe the 21st Century woman is different. She is a hardworking, business-oriented woman who manages to balance family and business. So, we want to encourage that as much as we can. We’ve partnered with Women Africa already, an organisation that helps in improving the lives of women around Africa. For the youth, the whole idea is to focus on the unlimited resources of our intellect. So we want to focus on creating atmospheres where the youth can express themselves and fully unlock their potential while in university. Facebook was created by a group of college students and they could do that because they had an enabling environment to be creative and the government invested in them. My point is, if you invest heavily in tertiary institutions, you’d get a lot of returns from the students. Secondly, we’ve heard people say they want to create skill acquisition centers to teach people to become tailors, plumbers and the likes. We don’t believe in such. Ask any aspirant, would they want any of their sons or daughters to become tailors? So we want to set grand targets. We already have architects from Brazil designing our institutes. DT: How will you carry the mantle of being the second youngest governor in Nigeria and a champion of the youth? Audu: I think the fate of the youth is at stake. If you talk about leadership by young people, they tend to point a finger at Kogi State and say that’s the reason why young people shouldn’t be in leadership positions. Something as basic as salaries, the current governor hasn’t been able to pay for 40 months during his 41 months in power. I want to say that this is not the fault of the youth. This is simply a case of not working for something. If you don’t work for it, you’ll never know the value of it. The people of Kogi State did not vote for the current governor, but he is the one occupying the seat and he has painted a bleak picture of young people in leadership. So the responsibility is on us to change this and bring in new, purposeful leadership. We must show Nigerians that yes, young people have the capacity to lead. We know we are ready for this job and can only do it with the youth coming together for a meaningful purpose. If an older person comes in, they are going to shut the door on the youth forever and say that we were given a chance, and blew it. So, this will be the second chance for the youth to prove what we are actually capable of. Kogi Governorship Poll: Audu's son set to dump YPP for APC Late Abubakar Audu's son Mustapha declares for Kogi Governorship race Why we must embrace change in Kogi – Dr Ahmed Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin