Chairman of the Imo State Task Force on Recovery of Government Assets, Mr. Jasper Ndubuaku, has alleged that the immediate past governor of the state, Rochas Okorocha and members of his family carted away 67 vehicles belonging to the state. In addition, Ndubuaku said Okorocha’s ADC took away five vehicles while his driver went home with one Prado Jeep. Speaking with newsmen, yesterday, the chairman lamented that other goods allegedly carted away from government house, ministries and parastatals included generating sets, chairs, television sets, kitchen utensils, beddings and cutleries all valued at over N50 billion. Reacting in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo, former Governor Okorocha said the allegations were diversionary and attempts by the Emeka Ihedioha administration to cover its inadequacies and inability to deliver since he took over the reins of power. He asked his successor to list those things he alleged were looted for him to reply formally. The statement said, “They have remained riotous in their approach on every issue.  They have not begun to run a government because they came to power through the back door. They are only busy blackmailing the former governor. We have challenged them to publish whatever they are looking for so that we can respond as responsible people. All the key appointees of the staggering government are all saying different things on one issue.  The government can’t fly,” he said. Giving a breakdown of what was allegedly looted by the outgone administration, Ndubuaku said the 27 local government chairmen, all the 30 commissioners and special advisers went away with government property. He alleged that the former the governor went home with all functional vehicles in the government house including bullet proof cars, back-up cars and outriders’ motorcycles, while his wife went home with one bullet proof vehicle. Ndubuaku said all the 27 payloaders for construction and 27 graders bought by the Ikedi Ohakim administration were carted away. The chairman expressed shock that one of Okorocha’s sisters got  contract to equip offices at N5 million each, but that all the offices had been stripped bare. Ndubuaku said, “The looting spree was unprecedented. It was as if government never existed as all paraphernalia of government were carted away. Even the 150 transformers bought by Okorocha for electioneering stunt all disappeared in thin air. Some of them told us that the cars were accidented somewhere in Abuja and Jos and we have told them to take us there.” He said all the looted property and their custodians had been identified, stressing that the essence of the briefing was to warn them to bring the property back before members of the task force swooped on them. He said if the advice was not heeded, government would have no option but go to their houses and take anything in sight, including criminalising their action and prosecuting them accordingly.  Imo: Okorocha, wife carted away 67 vehicles, ADC 5, task force alleges In Imo, Ihedioha raises alarm over alleged booby traps Stop harassing my wife, children, Okorocha begs Ihedioha Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin