A nursing mother simply identified as Ramatu and her 40-day-old baby, alongside three others were abducted in the early hours of Monday at Naharati ,  a suburb of Abaji town, FCT. The gunmen invaded the area and forced their way into some houses where they abducted their victims. Our reporter learnt that the kidnappers wanted to abduct the husband of Ramatu but that when they broke into the house, he escaped through the back door so they took away his wife and the baby. One of the wives of the FCT PDP treasurer, Kande Saidu, was among those kidnapped by the armed men. The FCT PDP treasurer, Alhaji Saidu Dan Masani, while narrating the incident to our reporter, yesterday, said the incident happened at about 12:45am when the gunmen broke into his house while he was sleeping in the palour. He said the gunmen whisked away his wife after they searched for him in all the bedrooms but did not see him. “I was sick and after taking my drugs I decided to sleep in the parlour with my senior wife. When the gunmen forced the door open and entered into the house, I covered myself with blanket but saw how they were searching for me,”he said. He said a masked woman led the gunmen into his house. “I heard a woman’s voice who wore a mask insisting that they should search everywhere that I was inside the house.  But when they did not see my car at home, they whisked away my wife,” he said. He said the kidnappers spent over 45 minutes before gaining access into his house but that they had left before policemen arrived. Another victim, Kamal Abdullateef, said he was abducted but released same day. “I heard strange noises and I woke up to go and find out what was happening.  My mother even asked me not to go out. As I stepped out, I discovered that gunmen had already surrounded my house. One of them asked me to go and open the door for them,” he said. He said  they collected N190,000 from him and as they led them through a bush path to their den, they asked him to go back. City News gathered that the wife of the FCT PDP treasurer and the nursing mother with her 40 days old baby as well as a yet to be identified  man were still being held captive, while the family and relatives of the victims had started negotiating with the abductors for ransom. The FCT police command spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, did not pick calls put across to him and did not reply to a text message. Gunmen abduct housewife, 2 children in Abaji How gunmen killed herder, abducted housewife  at Gulida Gunmen abduct 27 year-old man in Abaji Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin