The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Association of Capital Market Academics of Nigeria are collaborating to develop a curriculum for the Nigerian Capital Market Institute (NCMI). A statement from SEC said the curriculum would enable the commission and the association to set the required benchmark that would be adopted by the National Universities Commission in the accreditation of capital market studies in tertiary institutions. It said the partnership is the highpoint of a meeting between the association led by its Interim President Prof Uche Uwaleke, and the commission led by the Acting Director-General, Mary Uduk. Uduk said: “Working with this academic body is vital to moving the capital market forward. Research that comes out of the university must be actionable and should help boost the growth and development of the capital market” she said. “We will partner with you to develop curriculum for the Nigeria Capital Market Institute given where we want to take NCMI to. This association will make our job a lot easier,” she stated. In his remarks, Uwaleke said the idea behind the association is to advance the frontier of capital market research and promote capital market issues in the tertiary institutions. The university don said the need to set standard for capital market studies was based on the conviction that it would help promote the growth and development of the capital market. Uwaleke said that the association would also be partnering with the commission to create more awareness on the benefits of the capital market in tertiary institutions. SEC dedicated to robust market - Uduk SEC, NERDC to mainstream capital market in secondary schools curriculum SEC is implementing over 70% of Master plan initiatives - DG Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin