Ikeja Electric Plc has announced the roll-out of prepaid meters for customers in the Ikorodu Business Unit. According to the Disco, the deployment and installation of prepaid meters to customers in Ikorodu, which will be carried out by one of its Meter Asset Providers (MAPs), New Hampshire Capital limited, will commence on June 17, 2019, following the successful registration and subscription for meters by thousands of customers spread across Ikorodu and Epe axis of the company’s network. According to Ikeja Electric, the exercise is part of the first phase of meter roll out scheme, which will further extend to Abule Egba and Shomolu business units next week. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) had empowers third party companies identified as Meter Asset Providers (MAP) to procure and install meters for electricity consumers under this scheme. Customers applying for prepaid meters are expected to visit map.ikejaelectric.com to register. Speaking on the roll-out, Head of Corporate Communications, Ikeja Electric, Felix Ofulue, said: “In line with NERC regulations, customers are expected to pay for meters. Through the online process, customers are to abide by the rules and regulation guiding the metering process and they should not pay cash to anyone or fall prey to unscrupulous element who may want to take advantage of the scheme to fleece customers. They will be advised on the designated channels for payment”, he stated While explaining the process, he noted that every customer is expected to go through the Know Your Customer (KYC) process and also agree on settlement of the outstanding debt. After this, account survey will then be carried out before payment for prepaid meter is made. The meters will be provided and installed within 10 working days of payment. Ofulue also advised customers who dispute their outstanding bills to take advantage of the various re-payment options available during the KYC process. Outstanding balance can also be rolled over into the customer’s prepaid account and paid in instalments.” he said. According to him, the stipulated cost of a single-phase meter is N38, 850 while a three-phase meter is N70, 350. These are all inclusive of VAT.  Electricity: Benue rural communities lament ‘flat rate’, estimated billings Mojec partners banks, to roll out pre-paid meters Three firms to sell over one million meters to Ikeja DisCo customers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin