The chairman of Anambra State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Basil Ejidike, has said that leaders of Ohanaeze-Ndigbo are not fair to President Muhammadu Buhari. Ejidike, who spoke with journalists in Awka, the state capital, urged Ohanaeze-Ndigbo to be a neutral body and embrace all political parties. The Igbo socio-cultural organization had consistently alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari’s first term was a nightmare to its members. But Ejidike countered, saying the original aim of Ohanaeze-Ndigbo had been defeated long ago when the organisation derailed and deviated from its socio-cultural role to partisan politics. He said the PDP ruled for 16 years without any tangible achievements in the whole of the South East, but that with the coming of Buhari, the region was witnessing noticeable development. According to him, Ohanaeze venturing into partisan politics would not augur well for the Igbo nation. “During the 16 years of PDP administration, the Enugu-Onitsha expressway was impassable. Now Nnewi-Amichi-Uga road construction is going on; it is a federal road,” he said. “You are also aware of the commissioning of Zik Mausoleum which we thought Jonathan would have done but failed to. Buhari came, completed and commissioned it. “The Second Niger Bridge before President Muhammadu Buhari came on board was designed to be two lanes but Buhari came and made it three lanes on both sides making it six lanes altogether which will cover 11.5 kilometres from Asaba, Delta State, to Onitsha, Anambra State,” he said.  Ohanaeze Ndigbo not fair to Buhari, says Anambra APC 2015: Ohanaeze  Ndibgo Endorses GEJ for national conference Ohanaeze crisis worsens as Elders’ Council sets up Caretaker Committee Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin