The National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has advised Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State to respect the rule of law by ensuring that the majority party produces the speaker, deputy speaker and other principal officers in the House of Assembly. Oshiomhole gave the advice yesterday in Abuja when he met the APC lawmakers from Bauchi State with other key chieftains including former governor Mohammed Abubakar on the current crisis over speakership. He said since the APC did not use federal might to claim its mandate from the governor, he should not use a federal institution like the police to undermine the rights and privileges of the duly elected APC lawmakers. He said President Muhammadu Buhari had been fully briefed on the development and advised the Inspector General of Police to provide security for the State House of Assembly instead of allowing his officers to provide cover for ‘illegal act’. Oshiomhole said: “The earlier the governor of Bauchi came to terms with this reality the better for him and for everyone.” “There is no way PDP can produce the speaker, the deputy speaker and other principal officers. If the governor insists, then he is inviting trouble for himself. He should have said he is vacating the governorship office until the determination of his case.” “If he had submitted to the rule of law, I don’t think Governor Bala Mohammed with all due respect would have no choice than to submit himself and the PDP in Bauchi to rule of law.” Earlier, the factional speaker, Kawuwa Shehu Damina, called for the support of the party’s national leadership to ensure that the right thing was done. Damina also appealed to the security agencies to give enough cover for proper inauguration for 9th assembly to take place. Intrigues as Senate president, House speaker emerge today APC, PDP test strength in Buhari’s base tomorrow Governor Ajimobi asks Oyo APC Reps to back Gbajabiamila for speaker Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin