Members of Kogi State Council of Traditional Rulers, yesterday, met President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja demanding for the position of finance minister in the next cabinet. The monarchs, led by Attah Igala and President, Kogi State Council of Chiefs, His Royal Majesty, Dr Idakwo Michael Ameh Oboni Il, also presented the governor, Yahaya Bello to the president for a second term. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, the Obaro of Kabba, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi, said they met President Buhari over three issues. He said the first reason of their visit was to congratulate President Buhari for his re-election and swearing in for a second term. He said they also presented Governor Yahaya Bello to the president for the November governorship election in the state. The traditional rulers, while demanding for the position of finance minister in the next cabinet of the president, said they were not comfortable with the position of minister of state given to them in the last federal cabinet. “We had to reintroduce our governor to the president. Some people in the social media are already saying we are playing politics. We are not playing politics we are being realistic. When you are realistic you say things as they are. We came to reintroduce our governor to the president and demand for normal support since they belong to the same party. “The people at home have already endorsed his excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, for second term; so, we don’t need to re-endorse him in Abuja here. All we needed to do was to represent him to the president. “Like the chairman of our traditional council said, we are not comfortable with minister of state, so our status in the federal cabinet must be upgraded to full-fledged minister and by the grace of God minister of finance,” he said. On irregular salary payment in Kogi, he said: “We are happy to announce too, because our governor announced it here, that the last tranche of bailout of fund of about N30.8 billion has been approved. So, the issue of salary arrears, allowances and pensions will be put to rest by His grace before the elections. Also speaking, Governor Bello who was at the meeting said, “Mr. President in his usual manner of receiving everybody, gave us very warm reception and appreciated what we are doing in Kogi State.” BREAKING: Kogi monarchs meet Buhari, present Yahaya Bello for 2nd term Dino’s entry into Kogi gov’ship race poses new challenge for Bello Youths rally support for Buhari, Osinbajo re-election in Kogi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin