As part of efforts to commemorate the 2019 World Milk Day, Arla Dano®, makers of Dano Milk joined the rest of the world to celebrate milk and the goodness it brings. Riding on this year’s global campaign theme ‘Enjoy Dairy’, Arla Dano® held a spectacular farm-themed event tagged ‘On the farm with Dano’ at the Ndubuisi Kanu Park, Ikeja, Lagos, on Saturday, the 1st of June, 2019 with over 2,000 guests in attendance. Dano Milk kick-started the World Milk Day celebration with the ‘9ja MilkFest’ campaign on its social media handles via Instagram, Twitter and Facebook @danomilkng where the brand reached out to other brands in the milk and beverage category to join hands in nourishing Nigeria. The brand also announced the campaign to all its fans and followers as well as dairy lovers using teasers and three hashtags to drive the social media campaign; #9jaMilkFest, #Enjoy Diary and #World Milk Day with over fifty million impressions. Following this, charity visits were made by Dano Milk to communities and orphanages in Enugu, Ibadan and Lagos. Over 1,000 women and children in total benefited directly from the dairy products and materials donated by the brand, putting smiles on their faces and leaving them with the goodness DANO brings. The visits were in company of the Brand Ambassador, Rachael Okonkwo aka ‘Nkoli Nwa Nsukka’ in Enugu, ace comedian, FunnyBone in Lagos and Olusalako aka SLK in Ibadan. Residents in these communities touched by the charity visits could not hide their joy and excitement as they commended the brand. The brand also reached out to consumers through activations in schools, neighbourhoods, and markets across the country. According to the Marketing Manager, Ifunanya Obiakor, ‘’On The Farm with Dano” was informed by the need to showcase the entire process from grass to glass, helping to bring the awareness consumers need to have natural, healthy, good quality dairy nutrition every day. As a brand committed to the well-being of our consumers, we are celebrating milk and the nourishment it brings, and World Milk Day is a day that affords us the opportunity to bring the excitement that milk offers in an educating and entertaining way”. Dano Milk sets World Records for longest drinks-pouring relay How Nigeria can develop the dairy value chain Are we ready for the white revolution? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin