Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state on Tuesday warned 23 newly sworn-in Local Government Councils’ caretaker chairmen to shun all forms of illegal practices capable of giving them bad names. Ortom handed them the warning today in Makurdi during the swearing-in ceremony of the recently appointed caretaker chairmen following the tenure expiration of the immediate-past elected councils’ executives. The governor also warned the new appointees not to defraud the people at the grassroots into further poverty as he lamented the large scale hardship staring the people in the face. He urged them to formulate policies that are community-based and to strictly abide by the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) guideline in handling funds accruing to their various localities. “We, the Governors are in court with NFIU to insist that the constitutional provisions as it concerns the local governments are followed. So, I urge you to abide by the guidelines pending the determination of the suit. “I have not interfered with local government funds and I do not intend to do so. Guide against illegal practices that tend to give the local government bad name. Our government will not tolerate diversion of funds and any chairman found outside his domain would be removed,” he said. Ortom further charged the new chairmen to concern themselves with payment of staff salaries and to execute projects in accordance with the needs of their communities while exploring avenues to guarantee peace and security. The governor added that the appointment of eight women as caretaker committee chairmen and a number of youths was to ensure gender sensitivity and to encourage the youth prepare themselves for greater opportunities. Responding, the Caretaker Committee Chairman of Guma LGA, Anthony Shawon, on behalf of his colleagues, expressed gratitude to the governor for finding them worthy as he promised that they would live up to expectations. Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin