Daily Trust has gained exclusive insight into what led to the meeting between the Kano state Governor,Abdullahi Ganduje and Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II and which had in attendance Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Chairman of the Nigerian governor’s forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state. Presidency officials especially security officials there are concerned about the rising tension over the bad blood between the state government since the creation of 4 additional emirates and the query to the Emir regarding alleged emirate funds. The tension led to the cancellation of some of the traditional durbar procession with fears of breakdown of law and order.  At least one person was reported killed in the clash between some thugs and others in the durbar procession on eid-el – fitr day of Tuesday last week. Office of the Chief Of Staff to the President and that of the National Security Adviser helped to broker the meeting that held in Abuja late last week. Daily Trust learnt from a credible source that the deposition of the Emir is no longer on the card as the governor is said to have made it clear that it is not his wish to do so. Our source also says the 2 sides agreed to commit to ensure that the overall interest of Kano will prevail in all they do going forward. Both sides however failed to agree on the key demand of each other. The governor insists that the 4 new emirates of Bichi, Gaya, Karaye,and Rano and the law backing them  have come to stay. Daily Trust also learnt that the Emir could not give his word about the key demand for the emirate to discontinue the legal challenge to the law setting up the new emirates. A source familiar with the matter says the splitting of the emirate is not something for just the current Emir to decide but something which the entire Kano royal family should have a say. A report quoting a Kano state government official was the first to tell of the Abuja meeting between the 2 sides. Kano’s Sallah durbars after split emirates 5 years after Ado Bayero: So many changes in Kano Emirate Real reasons Ganduje is after Emir Sanusi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin