Ahead of the governorship and local government elections in Bayelsa state, billed for August and November, 2019 respectively, the chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Yenagoa Local Government, Goodluck Itu, has warned some party chieftains and members against indulging in anti-party activities. He said any unholy alliance with any other candidate outside PDP is unacceptable noting that the party leadership will frown seriously against such act. He stated this on Sunday when the leadership of the party received the PDP chairmanship candidate in Yenagoa local government, Nimizuoa Uroupaye, on a consultation visit at the party secretariat in Yenagoa. The chairman, who disclosed that one man’s ambition can’t be bigger than the interest of the party, added that the party at all level expects all stakeholders in the different areas to work with those who emerged flag bearers of the party after the party primaries, as it’s done in all state chapters in the country. He called on those who feel aggrieved to respect the peoples’ choice and join forces to canvass votes for the party ahead of the forthcoming local government elections. He explained that it now behoves on every member to work as a team to deliver votes for PDP in both local government and governorship elections. Earlier in his remarks, Mr Uroupaye urged the aggrieved members and all other aspirants to rally round him to ensure the party wins at the election, adding that he emerged winner at the primaries not because he is the best amongst them, but because the people spoke in one voice. He said his experience over the years as a grassroots politician was needed for continuation of the development of the metropolis, adding that when he eventually wins, he will facilitate the empowerment of youths, job creation and agriculture. According to him: “We will partner with the state government to ensure the successes achieved by this current government at the agricultural sector will extend to us, we will ensure our local farmers benefit from soft loans given to other farmers. I have been tested and the people trust my experience and performances.” How primaries are tearing Bayelsa PDP apart 18 NEW Battle for Bayelsa Creek Haven heats up as Dec 5 approaches Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin