The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has said it has concluded investigation of Oando Plc and directed among others the resignation of the affected Board members. It also barred the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer (DGCEO) from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. A statement yesterday by Mrs. Efe Ebelo, the Head, Corporate Communication, SEC, also said SEC also directed the convening of an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. These among others the SEC stated in the statement, are part of measures to address identified violations in the company. According to the SEC, “Following the receipt of two petitions by the Commission in 2017, investigations were conducted into the activities of Oando Plc (a company listed on the Nigerian and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges). “Certain infractions of Securities and other relevant laws were observed. The Commission further engaged Deloitte & Touche to conduct a Forensic Audit of the activities of Oando Plc,” it explained. “The general public is hereby notified of the conclusion of the investigations of Oando Plc. The findings from the report revealed serious infractions such as false disclosures, market abuses, misstatements in financial statements, internal control failures, and corporate governance lapses stemming from poor board oversight, irregular approval of directors’ remuneration, unjustified disbursements to directors and management of the company, related party transactions not conducted at arm’s length, amongst others,” the statement explained further. The SEC also directed the payment of monetary penalties by the company and affected individuals and directors, and refund of improperly disbursed remuneration by the affected Board members to the company. In addition, the SEC stated that other aspects of the findings would be referred to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Meanwhile, Oando in a statement by the Chief Compliance Officer/Company Secretary, Ayotola Jagun, challenged SEC decision saying the company has not been given the opportunity to see, review and respond to the forensic audit report. Oando gave false financial statement, dividend, SEC alleges Shareholders now take lead in Oando-SEC rift Oando asks JSE to suspend trading on shares Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin