Sections of Maiduguri metropolis were thrown into pandemonium on Sunday following sporadic shots by troops, creating rumours of a major Boko Haram attack on the metropolis. Troops from the Military Garrison, Maiduguri, despatched on operation to the outskirts plunged into sporadic shots, which drew immediate response from their counterparts at Molai axis, a few kilometres out of the metropolis along Maiduguri-Damboa road. These shots from within and without the metropolis plunged the residents of Damboa Road, Jiddari and Polo wards into pandemonium, leading to a large stampede as they scampered into the metropolis for safety in large numbers. The three wards, Daily Trust recalls, are the most often attacked around the metropolis by insurgents. Consequently, Governor Babagana Zulum, leading a team of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), members of the Civilian JTF and hunters, hurried to as far as the entrance of the city along Damboa Road to ascertain the incident. “We are yet to ascertain what exactly happened,” Zulum told newsmen on his return to Government House, assuring, “but it was not a Boko Haram attack, and people are already carrying out their normal duties.” The governor attributed the stampede to rumours, warning, “people should beware of rumours; they should desist from acting on any reports or rumours of attack until they ascertain the authenticity of the reports.” He reiterated his government’s commitment to supporting the security agencies with the required equipment and logistics to improve their emergency response. No report of death following the stampede, but several people who fled the areas sustained injuries, Daily Trust gathered. Boko Haram: Plying Borno roads still a nightmare Troops repel insurgents ’ attack in Maiduguri 4 Boko Haram chieftains killed, 2 soldiers injured in Borno clash  -    ‘Black Christmas’ plan uncovered Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin