A nongovernmental body, SWC Network Charity Organization, is set to hold a vocational skills acquisition programme for indigent persons. The organization’s founder, a former beauty queen, Anyichie Constance Uzoma, says the event tagged “Project Let’s Sustain Our Youths-Women” which would be held at Mbanacho village, Nkerefi, Enugu is commencing from July 20. Constance told YOUTHVILLE that the project will be built on active, experimental and practical learning sessions. She said: “We will train the beneficiaries in different skills of their choice for six months.” Constance, who works with volunteer professionals such as facilitators, says the training which will be done weekly is free and urged interested persons to register at the organisation’s website. The training would be done in photography, digital marketing, video editing, computer literacy, fashion & designing, cosmetology, shoes & accessories making, catering and hotel management, hair dressing, bead making among others. She explained that the outreach is targeting the youth and women of Nkerefi and its neighbouring communities so that the beneficiaries can earn a decent living, create jobs and “combat the menace of unemployment, under-employment and employability, currently ravaging our society.” She added that “our trainings are designed to provide a platform to train and educate our beneficiaries on skills that can help them create wealth, taking into cognisance the broad framework of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG’s) on eradication of poverty”. The SWC Network Charity Organization has in the past carried out such initiative at different communities. Oba of Lagos commends Dangote on youth empowerment programme 79 IDPs graduate from UNDP Skill Acquisition Course Abuja hosts ICreateSkillFest to boost youth workforce Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin