The Acting Director General of the National Pension Commission, Aisha Dahir-Umar, has said that payment of pension and retirement benefits are the mandate of the Pension Reform Act, 2014. Speaking at the pre-retirement workshop for Federal Government retirees who are due for retirement in 2020 held in Abuja, yesterday, Dahir-Umar said the commission would protect the interest of prospective retirees, including their benefits. The PenCom boss announced July 1 as the commencement date for the verification of prospective retirees of the Federal Government under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). “The objectives of the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014) is to ensure that every person who worked either in the public service of the federation, Federal Capital Territory, states and local governments or the private sector receive his retirement benefits as and when due and to establish uniform set of rules, regulations and standards for all aspects of pension administration, including payment of retirement benefits to retirees amongst others,” she said. The DG said as part of the commission’s annual regulatory activities, it has finalised arrangements to commence the verification of prospective retirees who would be retiring in 2020 from the public service of the federation. The verification exercise is scheduled to hold from 1 July to 2 August, 2019 in 15 centres across the country. In his presentation titled ‘Enrolment Exercise and Documentation Required’, the Assistant General Manager, Benefits and Insurance, Mal. Usman Bunza, said the importance of the pre-retirement verification and enrolment exercise is to ensure that retirees get their benefits in due time. Contributory pension: PenCom verifies prospective retirees from July 1 PenCom to start verifying 2020 retirees in July PenCom explains delay in gratuity payment Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin