Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, yesterday, met Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the State House, Abuja. Gbajabiamila who was elected on Tuesday, had a closed- door meeting with the vice president for about an hour. Speaking to State House reporters after the meeting, he said he met the vice president over issues relating to the development of the country. “It’s official and any meeting with the vice president is relevant. It is about the economy and how to move the country forward, charting a road map about how to confront the problems that are facing Nigeria today. “So, these were the issues we discussed. It wasn’t a personal meeting but you can call it a hybrid – between the personal and official but mostly it’s official. How the executive and the legislature can collaborate to make life better for Nigeria and Nigerians,” he said. He pledged to reform the House in line with yearnings of the citizenry. “Stay tune, you’ve heard my inaugural speech, we are going to do things differently, we are going to build on whatever the achievements are of the eight assembly, and it’s going to be a reformed house. “Like I have said, the reform will be fished out in piece meal so as not to shock the system. But they will be reforms that will be for the benefit of the country,” he said. To actualise the reforms, he said: “ We expect the cooperation of all facets of government, including the executive and you – the journalists and including our constituents.” He said the standing committees of the House would be unfolded in the next few weeks “And you will see how we intend to carry them along. I don’t want to let the cat out of the bag but you can be assured they would be carried along,” he said. Saraki: Meeting with Buhari not about my trial Nigeria can survive without oil – Osinbajo Buhari resumes, to call Council of State meeting Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin