Governor Simon Bako Lalong on Friday said his administration was working with security agents to track the woman who allegedly stole a three day old baby at the Plateau Specialist Hospital two weeks ago. While commissioning the ABBOTT Architect i1000 automated machine at the Plateau Specialist Hospital on Friday, Lalong called on patients to see the incident as an isolated case and stressed that the Police was already investigating and tracking the woman who stole the baby. Daily Trust report that the parents of the missing baby, Nwa God Chukwuebuka, 33 and Mary Chukwuebuka, 30 had raised alarm that their baby, delivered on Tuesday 28th of May was abducted on the 31st when a woman posing to be a hospital staff took the baby for blood test. However, Lalong stated that though he was yet to be properly briefed on the incident, he stressed that “if this is a singular incident, we don’t want it to discourage people, we are upgrading the facilities of this hospital, and we will put in the necessary measures and not only investigate the matter but also track the woman. The Police are doing their best we don’t want to expose the level of investigation but we don’t want such a thing to happen again in this hospital.” The Plateau State Police command on Friday confirmed that the case was linked to one Leritmwa Diyal, who claimed to have given birth to a baby girl on the same May 31st while in the kidnapper’s camp. A statement issued by the Public Relations Officer, DSP Tyopev Terna stated that while the incident of the missing baby was being investigated, the Police had received an intelligence report that Leritmwa who claimed to have delivered a female baby on the day of the abduction had taken her baby to Bingham University Teaching Hospital Jos for medical examination. He stated that the Police had written to the hospital on the 3rd of June asking the management to examine her as to whether she gave birth naturally within the period she claimed and also written to the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) on the same day where having claimed to have attended ante-natal care but the hospitals were yet to reply. A Police source told our correspondent that Leritmwa who is in Police custody had confessed after her husband denied knowledge of her pregnancy. The Police source stated that Leritmwa who was married for eight years without a baby had faked her kidnap and then abducted another woman’s baby. Stolen 3-day-old baby found, in hospital custody- CMD Missing baby sparks controversy at Plateau hospital 3-day-old baby missing in Plateau hospital Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin