Secretary of the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Ogun State branch, Tiwalade Akingbade, has described the dissolution of transport unions’ executive members by the State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, as a welcome development. The governor had a few weeks ago, dissolved the unions’ executives and set up an interim committee to look into the activities of the unions and make recommendations to the government. Akingbade who spoke with newsmen in Abeokuta on Wednesday, noted that the governor’s action has drastically doused tension over the unions’ leadership tussle which began shortly after 2019 polls. The transport union leader urged aggrieved members to deploy legal means to settle any dispute rather than resorting to violence. He said: “It is a welcome development. If you observe critically, there was tension since the new government came on board. The crisis started brewing shortly after the general elections over who becomes what in the transport unions. And I think what the government has done is a welcome development. The tension has calmed down now following proscription of the activities of transport unions in the state. The government had viewed the unions’ activities as threats to security of the state and that in my view, might have necessitated the action taken by the government”. He noted that Ogun State has been peaceful stressing that, for the past ten years, there have not been any record of violence from transport unions and I think the government was trying to sustain the tempo, hence the decision. “Every transport union has its constitution which guides its actions; I think any aggrieved member should deploy legal means of settling their grievances and not by going violent to disrupt the peace of the state. Peace has been reigning and it will continue to reign in Ogun State.”  NURTW, RTEAN hail revolution in Lagos public transport Ekiti threatens drivers’ unions over violence Count on our support: Transport unions tell Buhari, Sanwo-Olu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin