The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has said the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, must answer for what it’s “failures, depravities and unrestrained looting” of the nation’s treasury in the last four years. The PDP also asked the APC to face its “self-inflicted woes” and stop seeking “a face-saving measure” by dragging the name of the PDP into its internal brawl. The PDP, in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the APC, by bringing out its “dirty linen to the market place” at this time, had again demonstrated its insensitivity and contempt towards the values and feelings of Nigerians. “How else can it justify its choice of fouling the national space at a time compatriots are observing the blessings of Eid el fitri? “It is most reprehensible that after pushing Nigerians into anguish and economic misery, the crisis-ridden APC will not allow our people to celebrate the end of Ramadan in peace. “It is imperative to state that the PDP, as a responsible party, will not join the APC in its shameless dance, yet, the APC must know that it must answer for its failures, depravities and unrestrained looting of our national treasury in the last four years. “This is the same APC, whose National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, confirmed as a sanctuary of looters and unpatriotic people, when he declared that, ‘once you join the APC, your sins are forgiven.’ “It has also become clear to Nigerians that the APC is fixated on the PDP and has become feverish by the reinvention of the PDP to serve the interest of the people. This is in addition to the fact that the majority of Nigerians now believe more in our party, the PDP, after seeing through the lies, deceit and failures of the APC and its government. “The APC must face the truism that having divided our people, wrecked our once robust economy, returned our nation to a debtor status and brought so much misery to the extent that our compatriots now resort to suicide and slavery mission abroad as options, Nigerians cannot continue to lend it any support. “The determined optimism expressed by majority of Nigerians for the retrieval of our stolen Presidential mandate at the tribunal as well as the spontaneous jubilation across the country over the victory of the PDP in state governorship elections shows that the people are eager to have the PDP back at the saddle of governance. “The PDP therefore, counsels the APC to seek restitution for the misery it has caused the nation instead of always looking for scapegoats where none exist,” the PDP said. APC governors award to Buhari an endorsement of failure - PDP APC to PDP: Stop fanning embers of religion PDP not comfortable with anti-corruption war - APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin