A physically challenged man, Wasiu Nurudeen, who rescued a pregnant woman on Sunday night, said he had to lie to the Police before the woman, Seyi Olalekan, who was at verge of death, could be rescued. Seyi was impregnated by a commercial motorcyclist, who promised to settle down with her but left her after she conceived the pregnancy. According to Seyi, she engaged in sex commercial work after the death of her parents, but the man who impregnated her, convinced her to drop the prostitution work and settle down with her but fled after she got pregnant. “I was a trained stylist. When there was nobody to assist me, I engaged in prostitution before I met the man that impregnated me. On that fateful day, he asked me to stop prostitution that he wanted to help me. I agreed to marry him but when he discovered that I have pregnant, he stopped picking my calls and fled. I have been fending for myself and pregnancy since he left me. Thanks to Mr. Wasiu who helped me despite his condition,” she said. While going through the agony of delivery at the road side, a crippled man on wheelchair, Wasiu Nurudeen, was passing-by on a chartered motorcycle when he heard her voice and took her to Apata General Hospital He said: “When I heard her voice, I stopped the bike man who was taking me home. I saw her that she was going through pains and anguish. I dropped my wheelchair and wheeled myself to the nearest Police station. The police refused to attend to me but I told them she was my wife. When they refused to answer me, I wheeled myself back to the spot of the incident. I still met the woman in pains. I had to stand at the roadside and started waving down motorists for help. I told them she is my wife”. “Fortunately for me, a man was coming from Apata and told me that there was a General Hospital close to the place. I took her there and told them she is my wife. They attended to her and she gave birth to a baby girl. I thank God for her safe delivery”, he said.   My husband impregnated my sister twice, wife tells court SHOCKING! Nigerian impregnates woman, begs husband with G-Wagon How an Ibadan woman married two husbands Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin