Rep. Aminu Suleiman Goro represents Fagge Federal Constituency of Kano State. He also chairs the House Committee on Tertiary Education and TETFUND. In this interview, the chieftain of the All Progressives Congress speaks on the current misgivings in the ruling party and cautions those calling for the resignation of Adams Oshiomhole as the party’s national chairman. Excerpts:  There have been accusations against Oshiomhole that he caused the party’s misfortunes in some states, are you not worried that this is happening? I must confess that I’m disturbed and worried by some of the developments and consequences unfolding. But for anybody to conclude that the current travails are consequences of the actions or inactions of the national chairman of our party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for me that is not only doing disservice to the person and office of the national chairman, but it is being unfair to the party itself. I have not been able to comprehend fully some of the reasons advanced by all those who are attempting to hold the national chairman responsible for some of the disadvantages the party suffered as a consequence of some of the pronouncements from the courts in some of the states. But, I was thinking for anybody to rate APC vis-a-vis the performances during the election, one needed to do an x-ray of the status of the APC before the convention that produced Adams Oshiomhole. For those of us who are students of history, we will recall that before Adams took over, the coach of the APC was not only nosediving at that time, but the party was facing crises left, right and centre. For any caring person, it was believed at that time that APC was facing extinction. Because of the crisis at that time, the APC was becoming an orphan. It was at that stage that Adams came in as a rescuer; speaking for and on behalf of the party, giving hope and courage to the remaining members, visiting the parliament and encouraging the members to remain, mobilising support for the government in and out of the parliament. It was to the credit of Adams that our government and our party were not weakened by the antithetical activities of the opposition party, the PDP, in connivance with some elements within the APC, trying to reincarnate the episode of 2014 when majority members of the parliament and the government left the then ruling party, PDP, which signalled the collapse of the party then and the Jonathan government. That was the scenario that was about unfolding, and it was the intention and plan of those that left our party and joined the PDP to give the APC the 2014 treatment that the PDP suffered and went into electoral demise. I will agree that there are some areas, with the benefit of hindsight, that could have been done otherwise. But to completely forget our history, where we’re coming from, what Adams inherited, what he did at the time of his emergence, his contributions, fearless engagements with the opposition, committed defence of the party that culminated in its victory nationwide, just because we now have issues in one or two states, we’re now willing to throw away the baby with the bathwater, for me it’s a very unfair treatment. Some are saying that the party was not assertive enough in handling cases in states like Rivers and Zamfara, don’t you think they have a point here? I don’t agree with those trying to put the blame on the party or its chairman. Without being disrespectful to the judiciary, it is my belief that in the two cases of both Rivers and Zamfara, the APC wasn’t justly treated to be on the side of judicial objective. What I can say is that APC just got judgment not justice. What ordinarily should have been done was to give justice to both parties. By this, I mean the courts have now taken over the responsibility of the electorate who are constitutionally empowered to elect or reject people. In the case of Zamfara, for instance, APC by whatever reason did not play according to her own rules, not that the APC didn’t comply with the constitution of Nigeria. It is the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that gives political parties the right to adopt a method of choosing their own candidates, and APC relying on that proceeded to do it in a manner that it wanted, only for the court to come and take away the decision of the Zamfara people and give it to the people that were rejected. I don’t see justice in that. The deputy national chairman of APC Lawali Shuaibu and the former chairman Oyegun have called on Oshiomhole to resign, don’t you think they’re right? Sen Lawali Shuaibu as the deputy national chairman is a fellow I respect very well. I know his antecedents and what he stood for. I haven’t been able to interrogate the basis of his assertion that the chairman should resign. I heard, not even read, that he has made this proposition. First, as a Nigerian, he’s entitled to his opinion, and as a deputy national chairman, he must have a reason for making that statement. But I thought as a former senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and somebody next to the national chairman, it is my opinion that there are better channels available to him to discuss those issues and address them without making them subjects of market discussion. For Oyegun, I’m surprised, because rather than accusing Adams of the misfortunes that the APC found itself with, Oyegun should re-examine and re-interrogate himself, because what we’re facing now is actually the mess created by the leadership of Oyegun, which Adams has been battling to address. In trying to address the mess he created, Adams ended up offending, not intentionally, some aspects. But decisions just have to be taken, because crises were there in different states left unattended too. With all these discordant tunes, what future does APC have between now and 2023? For me, these are just little issues being raised by a couple of concerned people and being mischievously over-exaggerated by some sections of the media to create and sustain a supposed tension in the party that is completely not there. The governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir el-Rufai recently talked about godfatherism in Lagos and a lot of people thought he targeted Tinubu, isn’t that another sign of crisis in the party? I’m so happy that Governor el-Rufai has clarified what I believe wasn’t his intention and what he had actually said and meant. I was so worried when for over two weeks the media were having a field day; giving different interpretations to what el-Rufai said. I am not from Kaduna State, but if you ask me, I will say without any iota of doubt that Governor el-Rufai is one of the finest emerging political leaders we have in the North. He is highly intellectual, committed, dedicated and a trustful party leader and governor. I am sure he is aware of the implications of what he says or doesn’t say. Ab initio I never believed Governor el-Rufai intended to denigrate the person of the Jagaban, the National Leader of the APC. I was so worried when he didn’t make any statement, but typical of him he came out to say the obvious and made mischief makers grossly disappointed; they have been torpedoed. What would you say about the current contest for the presiding officers of the incoming 9th House? I’m a loyal party member. When we resumed, I initially declared interest for a presiding officer’s position, but when the position of the party was made known with the zoning of the two offices to the South West and North Central, I immediately kowtowed. Having learnt that the next available position, the House Leader, is to go to my zone, I shifted position to that, making my consultations along with my colleagues. With my little knowledge of the working of the parliament and the government, I believe I’m in a better position to help in cementing the executive-legislative relationship. I enjoy tremendous support from people of my zone and all the other geopolitical zones. I am confident that the party and other stakeholders will do the needful and do a very critical and objective analysis of those involved. I believe whoever emerges among us, the rest will be ready to support him and support the incoming speaker, Femi and his deputy, Wase, by the grace of God, to ensure that the House takes off on good footing. APC coalition demands Oshiomhole's resignation Oshiomhole: A party leader on hot seat Oshiomhole, Oyegun trade  blame for defeat in 5 states Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin