The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel has cautioned the 2019 Batch B Stream 1 Corps Members against any form of involvement in cult related activities during their stay in the state. Speaking yesterday during the swearing in ceremony of corps members at the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC), Permanent Orientation Camp in Ikot Itie Udung, Nsit Atai local government area, Emmanuel said to ensure a brighter future, it was important the corps members stay away from cultism. The Governor who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youths and Sports, Mr Effiong Ekpenyong, assured them of adequate security for their lives and property throughout the service year. He encouraged them to imbibe the spirit of discipline which is the hallmark of the NYSC, adding that the government was committed to the improvement of facilities in the orientation camp for the comfort and conveniences of the corps members and camp officials. He urged them to demonstrate the highest sense of responsibility in the discharge of their duties, and reminded them that the task of nation building was a collective responsibility. He encouraged them to embrace the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme offered during the orientation course and transform themselves from job seekers to employers of labour. “On the part of government, I want to assure you that your security will continue to be in the front burner. Conversely, I implore you not to deviate from the right ethos by engaging in cultism and other vices capable of ruining your future. “The roles we play individually and collectively are consequential in evolving a society of our dream. I urge you to demonstrate the highest sense of responsibility in the discharge of your duties as corps members,” he said. The Akwa Ibom State Coordinator of NYSC, Mr Julius Amusan, said 2, 094 corps members posted to the state registered as at midnight of June 19, adding that they where made up of 1, 013 males and 1, 081 females. Amusan urged the corps members to conduct themselves within the precepts of the law to avoid any trouble during the service year, and participate actively in all the activities outlined in the orientation timetable. He appealed to the State Government to complete all ongoing projects in the camp within the shortest possible time as promised. NYSC swears in 1900 corp members in Abia NYSC Board rates Sokoto orientation camp high Obiano offers automatic employment to 17 corps members Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin