President Muhammadu Buhari has assured the people of Katsina State and indeed the entire country that kidnapping and banditry will soon come to an end. Speaking at the fourth convocation ceremony of the Federal University, Dutsinma, Buhari, who is a Visitor to the  institution said, “we are bent on subduing the situation and creating an environment for lawful citizens to go about their legitimate businesses without fear or molestation”. According to him, “the war against bandits and kidnappers involves a lot of covert operations that are not easily accessible to the citizens. But I want to assure you that we are winning the war.” Buhari, who was represented by the former deputy governor of Kano State, Professor Hafiz Abubakar, challenged universities in the country to come up with new strategies for generating revenue internally, pointing out that funding the institutions is a challenge. “The high cost of funding university activities cannot be borne by government alone. In this regard, I want to urge and encourage our universities to look inwards for more constructive ways of generating internal revenue through research that will attract grants, establishment of consultancy services, poultry and fisheries farms, hotels, animal husbandry and partnering the private sector,” he added. In his remarks, the acting Vice Chancellor, FUDMA, Professor Adamu Baba-Kutugi, said the young university is striving hard to lead by example despite numerous challenges, including inadequate security, especially at its permanent site, lack of staff accommodation, inadequate students’ hostels and poor road network. At the convocation of 430 graduands, 24 bagged first class degree, 181 students made 2nd Class Upper, 178 got 2nd Class Lower while 47 students bagged 3rd Class. President Buhari: Kidnapping, Banditry will soon end Death penalty: About time, too! Better the devil you know Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin