At least 189 journalists have graduated from the Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa’s (BMIA) Financial Journalism Training (FJT) programme. The training programme in Nigeria was delivered in partnership with the University of Lagos Department of Mass Communication and Pan-Atlantic University, Lagos Business School. Four intakes of the interactive, hands-on training were previously offered in Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa graduating 568 delegates from 13 countries. A statement from Bloomberg Philanthropies said the BMIA’s expansion to Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal will introduce the training program to Francophone countries for the first time. It said the expansion of the training program to five new countries in Africa follows the success of the program in Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa, where 568 delegates from 13 countries have graduated to date. Michael R. Bloomberg, founder of Bloomberg L.P. and Bloomberg Philanthropies, said:  “Reliable, accessible financial reporting is critical to driving sustainable economic growth and good governance. The expansion of the Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa to five new countries will significantly further our mission to advance financial journalism and transparency on the continent.” Andreas Dracopoulos, Co-President of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF) said,  “We are very excited to see the start of this new phase of the Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa Financial Journalism Training program. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation is proud to partner with Bloomberg in helping equip a global talent pool of journalists with the sort of specialist expertise that can propel them towards attaining a high level of professional excellence.” ALI Media Fellowship: A flight to a new life experience Media Trust chairman, others to speak at Bloomberg Africa biz media summit Media Trust chairman to speak at Bloomberg Africa media summit Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin