Scheming between Governor Babagana Zulum and other political forces over the speakership and other positions has delayed the inauguration of the 9th Borno State House of Assembly, Daily Trust has reliably gathered. While majority of states across the federation have inaugurated their new legislatures, the Clerk of Borno State Assembly has, as at reporting time, not received the proclamation from the state governor directing him to inaugurate the 9th Assembly. Although rumour has gone round that the new assembly would be inaugurated on Thursday, a day after Democracy Day, the Clerk of the House told Daily Trust that there was no definite date yet for the inauguration. “That remains only rumour, as you have said,” Alhaji Ibrahim Ngulde told Daily Trust yesterday in Maiduguri, clarifying further that “the inauguration of our new House is delayed because I have not yet received any proclamation from the executive governor to that effect.” He said: “I can’t mention any date because there is no definite date yet. The date for the inauguration will be determined by the day I receive the required proclamation from the executive governor. “On the receipt of this proclamation, even if this afternoon, I will organise towards a date, and we will place an announcement inviting all the newly elected members to converge for the inauguration,” the clerk said, adding, “this is the procedure, and we have abided by it.” An impeccable source told Daily Trust that the delay in the inauguration of Borno Assembly was caused by indecision over whether the Speaker in the 8th Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan, should be returned as speaker, or if his fellow members from northern Borno should be elected instead. Youths make inroads as state assembly speakers emerge APC mobilising governors, key chieftains ahead of 9th Assembly Governor Makinde issues proclamation on Oyo State 9th Assembly Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin