Senate President Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, said the National Assembly will work seamlessly with the executive, adding that Nigerians did not make a mistake in voting for them. Lawan who spoke after meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the State House, Abuja, said their relationship with the executive arm of government must be based on cooperation and collaboration. “We believe that we must remain united in the National Assembly; we must remain focused for us to be able to deliver those legislative interventions that would be necessary for good governance in the country. “We also believe that we must have a relationship with the executive arm of government that is based on cooperation and collaboration. It is our desire in the 9th National Assembly to work seamlessly with the executive arm of government because we believe that Nigerians did not make a mistake for voting for the executive as presently constituted and the legislature as it is today. “So, we are in it together with the executive arm of government to work in such a fashion to be able to deliver those democracy dividends that Nigerians need today,” he said. Emphasizing that the National Assembly under him won’t be a rubber stamp, he said a parliament was not a primary school or a secondary school where a headmaster or principal dictated to his students. “Parliament is an aggregate or an assemblage of people that have equal status. Being elected as Senate president does not mean that I’m the boss of the other senators. I’m simply to coordinate and aggregate views and lead debates. “So, there will be nothing like rubber stamp. So far I have never seen a National Assembly that had a rubber stamp leadership and I have been around for 20 years to that. “But one thing I must tell you is that while we desire to remain sufficiently on our track, we will ensure that oversight function is properly carried out but we will cooperate fully and give total support to the administration to ensure that there is good governance,” he assured. My Senate president ambition originated from my colleagues – Lawan Lawan: Senate,  presidency won’t resolve issues in market place under my leadership Senate Presidency: I expect endorsement of all PDP senators, says Ahmed Lawan Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin