There is disquiet in the Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) over allegations of misappropriation of funds and lack of due procedures in electing officials of the association. Some stakeholders met at the weekend in Lagos, saying the crisis in the association had prevented it from assisting government in the development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The concerned stakeholders from the South-South, South-East and South-West addressed a press conference in Lagos where they rejected the national leaders of the association. Chairman, Ogun State Chapter of NASSI, Mr Segun Bada, said the executive presently headed by the Vice-President, Mr Solomon Vongfa, has not been accountable. He said, “A duly elected executive took over leadership of the association in January 2015 with Mr Ezekiel Essien as the president. “However, a few years into his leadership, he suffered from an ailment that kept him out of the office for a long time. “This placed responsibility to lead the association in the hands of Mr Solomon Vongfa, a vice president and acting director-general,” he said. The stakeholders also claimed over N70 million contributed by members as counterpart funds for onward lending was allegedly misappropriated under the watch of Vongfa. The secretary, Cross River State Chapter of NASSI, Mr Anani Esane, said the recent election conducted in the association was null and void, stating that it was held after the electoral committee had been dissolved and the poll date extended. He said the association disassociates itself from Vongfa who is currently parading himself as the national president of NASSI. The stakeholders resolved that it was pertinent for the association’s trustees and its supervising ministry – Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment (FMITI) – to intervene and save it from impending crisis and possible collapse. Reacting, Vongfa said the allegations were baseless and a cheap blackmail by those desperate to be in position. He specifically dismissed the claim of N70m embezzlement, adding that due process was followed in the electoral process as it had 28 states in attendance, six states were absent, while the remaining two states were on suspension. “The absence of states that chose not to participate in the election does not render the election void,” Vongfa said.  Small-scale industrialists launch N100m micro credit scheme ABCON members agree to resolve leadership crisis New fund to provide 60m MSMEs access to finance Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin