Aggrieved Local Government councilors in Ogun State on Thursday stormed the State House of Assembly at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, blocked the entrance gate in protest against their suspension by the legislature. The Councilors besieged the Assembly complex as early as 8am, preventing lawmakers and staff of the Assembly from gaining entrance into the complex. Daily Trust recalls that the legislature had on Friday passed a resolution suspending all elective office holders across the local governments over alleged financial misappropriation. The protesters carried placards with various inscriptions that read: “The lawmakers are the lawbreakers”, “Respect Supreme Court judgement on local government tenure”,  “ OGHA led by Rt. Hon Suraj Adekunbi, don’t rubbish Dapo Abiodun’s administration through your selfishness” among others. A mild drama, however, ensued when the Speaker of the House, Suraj Isola Adekunbi, who caught the protesters unaware gained entrance into the complex but the protesters charged at his convoy and hauled abuses at him over the suspension. The Speaker later told the Councilors to find a better way to address their agitations, saying name- calling would not solve any problem. The leader of the protesters, Azeez Oloyede, said they were surprised at the position of the Assembly at a time when the issue of local government autonomy is being addressed. On the allegation of financial misappropriation, Azeez told the Speaker that they have not received any correspondence to the effect of any allegation against the administration of the local government before the decision was taken. He said: “We heard the rumour that we are suspended. Why is it that when the issue of local government autonomy is being addressed now that you’re suspending us from office? Till this moment, there is no allegation against us”, he stated The Speaker who later addressed newsmen said he was surprised to see the protesters at the Assembly complex since they have not received any correspondence to the effect of their suspension. Adekunbi said the Assembly acted within its own power and that the Councilors should have waited for communication from the executive arm of the government before their action.  Ogun Assembly will go for LG autonomy – Speaker Pay our wardrobe allowance, Ogun Assembly tells Gov Amosun Abeokuta communities, 118 persons get boreholes, financial aids Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin