Yesterday’s withdrawal by Sen. Mohammed Danjuma Goje from the Senate president’s race has changed the permutations for the contest and appears to favour Sen. Ahmad Lawan, Daily Trust reports. Goje had not come out publicly to declare for the Senate presidency; he had been going about his campaign quietly among senators-elect for the 9th Assembly. Until yesterday, there were three contenders for the Number 3 Citizen’s seat – Lawan, Goje and former Senate Leader Mohammed Ali Ndume – all of whom are from the north eastern states of Yobe, Gombe and Borno. While Lawan was endorsed by the national leadership APC and President Muhammadu Buhari for the seat, Goje and Ndume were on their own. Despite Goje’s non-public declaration for the coveted seat, he was considered to be the biggest threat to Lawan’s ambition as he was believed to have the support of outgoing Senate President Bukola Saraki and majority of senators of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). However, following his meeting yesterday with President Buhari, Goje announced his withdrawal from the race and declared support for Lawan’s candidature. Explaining his decision to withdraw from the race, Goje said in a tweet via his official Twitter handle @mdgoje1 that he did so in the national interest and out of respect for President Buhari. “Today (yesterday), during my meeting with President Buhari at the State House, Abuja. The meeting with the President led to my withdrawal from the Senate Presidency. “I took this hard decision in the interest of the country and out of  my respect for the President,” Goje said.  Senate Presidency: Goje’s imminent entry brings new twist Lawan unveils legislative agenda tomorrow Senate President: Step down for Lawan, Yobe emirate begs Ndume, Goje Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin