There is calm in Jalingo, Taraba state after Kona youths reportedly blocked a public highway yesterday and allegedly attacked innocent travellers. The attacks by Kona youths at Kasuwan Bera, Nukkai and ATC area of the metropolis caused pandemonium among residents as many flee their homes, Daily Trust reports. The fleeing residents of the affected areas had raised false alarm that the area was under attack. In a statement signed by Police Public Relations Officer, Taraba state command, DSP David Misal, he said what happened yesterday was very unfortunate. He narrated that some armed bandits on motorcycles had invaded Tundiri village through Jauro Yuni in Ardo-Kola which is a predominantly Fulani and Mumuye settlement and set many huts ablaze. According to the police, the bandits escaped to the bush before arrival of the police, but unfortunately Kona youths blocked Nukkai, Kasuwan Bera and ATC highway in Jalingo and attacked innocent people for no reason. The police further stated that as a result of the attack vehicles and Keke-NAPEP were burnt down by the attackers. He explained that however all barricades were removed by the police who were promptly dispatched, just as the road was cleared with vehicles now passing freely. He noted that adequate security was provided at the area and warned that any person or group of persons found causing trouble will be arrested and prosecuted. The police however said no death was recorded as there is total calm in the affected areas and in Jalingo metropolis, adding that two suspects have been arrested. When our correspondent visited Nukkai, Kasuwan Bera and ATC area, he saw people doing their normal activities as traffic flows freely on the road which was hitherto deserted yesterday. Also, the soldiers, police and civil defence corps were positioned along the high way in the affected area, just as no single house or shop was burnt down in the area as against the false alarm raised which claimed the entire area was on fire. Daily Trust’s findings at the Federal Medical Centre, Jalingo revealed that two dead bodies and seven wounded persons were brought to the hospital last night. Many killed, houses burnt in Jalingo Rampaging youths injure Taraba Commissioner of Police Mob attacks Taraba police CP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin