The 9th National Assembly should focus on legislations that would better the lives of Nigerians and resolve the issues of insecurity in the next four years, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has said. The Executive Director of CISLAC, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, told Daily Trust that the 9th Assembly, inaugurated last Tuesday, should pay attention to some critical issues requiring urgent legislative priority, decision and action, which included the establishment of a chapter of African Parliamentarians Against Corruption. “This is in line with the fight against corruption of the current administration,” he said. Rafsanjani said others are “enabling legislation to address major security challenges that hamper progress and development of the country with appropriate framework for Nigerian Police Reform. He also listed “Revitalization of Primary Health Care system to activate minimum package for the basic health care provision for adequate, accessible and affordable Primary Health Care services in the country. “Electoral reform through review and revisit of amendment to relevant sections of the Electoral Act to ensure free and fair conduct of electoral process; this will create electoral and political integrity and confidence. “Enabling support for transparent, inclusive and participatory process in legislative; enabling legislation for strengthening judicial system for independence and adequate pursuit of justice and proceed on crime; this would ensure judicial integrity and confidence for Nigerians and eliminate judicial corruption. “Comprehensive reform in the oil and gas sector through revisiting of enabling legislation – Petroleum Industry and Governance Bill for passage and assent; “Regular and effective oversight activities on public finance and appropriate scrutiny of budgetary process to ensure high impact and efficiency in public service delivery; “Constructive working relationship with the executive, especially in the area of budget presentation and passage; enhanced legislature-constituency relations through instituting an open-door policy, holistic feedback and response mechanisms. “Comprehensive review of Proceed on Crime Bill for enabling provision on appropriate management of recovered assets and repatriated funds; enabling legislative process to transform whistleblower protection policy into legislation for high impact and sustainability in the nation’s anti-corruption fight. “Enhanced oversight activities on funds appropriated to the Defence sector to ensure accountability and judicious utilization of funds for the purpose they are meant. “Mainstream and provide space for non-state actors to contribute and support legislature with credible information, capacity enhancement and useful suggestions for legislative effectiveness in Nigeria.” CISLAC said it would be ready for a collaboration with the National Assembly on issues affecting legislative and policy advocacy and capacity building. May 29: Scrap security votes – CISLAC urges Buhari Electorate’s perception responsible for lawmakers’ high turnover —Rafsanjani CSO urges FG to raise tobacco taxes, price to force down consumption Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin