Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday restated his commitment to collaborate with residents and people of the state for successful implementation of his administration’s policies and programmes. The governor, who said this when he hosted Muslim faithful in Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja to mark 2019 Eid-el-Fitri, informed them that his government will soon release emergency hotlines to the public to call the Lagos State Public Works for immediate fixing of potholes and roads that need urgent repairs. “Let us have continuous collaborative engagements. We will continue to ask you to work with us. We would be calling on you at different times. Our Public Works Corporation would soon come out and start fixing all the potholes on our roads.  We would soon publish the numbers that people can be calling to notify us of wherever there are potholes in the state”, Governor Sanwo-Olu stated. He expressed happiness as he joined Muslim brothers and sisters to celebrate the end of Ramadan after a long period of spiritual cleansing and self-discipline, urging them to pray for the success of his administration. “I am happy and pleased to join our Muslim brothers and sisters in this glorious celebration of Eid-el-fitri. A long stretch of fasting like this is not the easiest thing. It takes special grace and personal discipline, to go through the religious obligation. “Continue to pray for the success of our administration and our prayers is that we all witness next year in good health and progress”. Earlier in her welcome address, wife of the Governor, Dr. (Mrs) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, urged Muslim faithful to continue with the lofty virtues of Ramadan which include self-discipline, love for others, selflessness, piety and generousity among others. “The important lessons for us to learn from this special season have to do with the virtues of sacrifice, self-denial, piety, love and generousity among others. The Chief Imam of Lagos Central Mosque, Sheikh Sulaiman Abou-Nolla, expressed appreciation to the Governor for receiving the Muslim community, prayed for the guidance and protection of Almighty Allah on the governor, his family and Lagosians, while also seeking for the mercy of Allah on everyone. “We pray that Allah guide and protect the first family and Lagosians and showers his mercy on them,” Chief Imam said.  Sanwo-Olu directs LASTMA to control traffic till 11p.m Eid-el-Fitr: Sanwo-Olu hosts Muslim community Sanwo-olu meets Lagos workers, signs executive order Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin