Homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigations Department (SCID), Lagos State Command, are currently investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of a 56 year-old man, one Rasaki Balogun, and his lover in an apartment at Ejigbo. The body of the 56 year-old man, and his yet to be identified lover, were found dead in a pool of blood at number 16, Taiwo Oke, Victory Estate, Ejigbo. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos, Bala Elkana, said that the case was reported to the Police by the victim’s wife, one Akorede Balogun. He said that based on the strength of the complainant, Police from Ejigbo visited the scene where the two corpses were recovered. Elkana noted: “On June 20, 2019, at about 8.00am, one Akorede Balogun, ‘f’, of Area 2, Igbehindun Estate, New Heaven, Iba, reported at Iba Police Station that her husband, one Rasaki Balogun, ‘m’, 56 year-old of No, 16, Taiwo Oke, Victory Estate, Ejigbo, was found dead with his mistress in his sitting room. “Corpses of the man and his mistress were found in the pool of their blood. The man is said to be living alone in the house while his family lives in a different place. Identity of the mistress is yet to be established. The man was said to have picked the woman about two days to the incident from unknown location. The crime scene was sealed off for forensic analysis while the corpses were evacuated to hospital for autopsy. Homicide detectives from SCID, Yaba, have taken over the case on the instruction of the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Zubairu Muazu. Investigation is on-going to unravel the circumstances surrounding their death”, he added.  Lady jailed one year for bolting away with lover’s N1.3m Hunger forced me into crime - 14-yr-old suspect Teenager, 32-yr-old lover arrested for alleged sodomy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin