Three armed robbery suspects have been arrested by the police at Ipaja, in two separate armed robbery attacks committed within the area. The suspects, according to the police, operate under the guise of being commercial motorcycle operators to rob unsuspecting members of the public. The first incident, police said, occurred on June 3, 2019, involved an armed robbery suspects, one Shefiu Aliu. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said that, Aliu, was arrested at about 9 am of the day of the incident by surveillance patrol team from Ipaja Police Station. Elkana said that the said Aliu, had attempted to snatch handsets and handbags from two female victims, identified as Grace Williams, and Deborah Wiliams, around NEPA area of Ayobo-Ipaja road. He said that the suspect who poses as a commercial motorcyclist, popularly known as Okada, took advantage of the passengers’ eagerness to avoid traffic congestion through the use of Okada to rob his passengers. The suspect, Elkana noted, has confessed to the commission of the crime. The motorcycle he usually uses to perpetrate the offence has been recovered with one sharp object concealed under the seat of his motocycle. The Lagos State Police Spokesman further revealed that, on same day at about 10pm, surveillance patrol team from Ipaja Division, deployed to Zion Church area, located on Aina Obembe road, Baruwa, arrested one Biodun Oladimeji, ‘m’, and Afiz Tajudeen, ‘m’, a.k.a Arapa after they had snatched a bag from one female victim, one Obiako Ruth. He stated that the two suspects, also disguised as commercial motorcyclists to attack their victims. “The Motorcycle was also recovered with one matchet, one knife, and a locally made pistol. Suspects will be charged to court”, he added.  It is easier to rob using motorcycle - suspects Poverty pushed me into armed robbery  – Suspect Two teenagers, 3 others nabbed over robbing in Lagos traffic Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin