The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) yesterday disclosed that 69 people died   in various road accidents across Ogun State from April till date. The State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, disclosed this on Thursday during the second quarter retreat of the command held at its headquarters, Abeokuta. According to him, 143 crashes were recorded so far during the second quarter of 2019 which was 63 per cent increase, compared to the 88 crashes recorded in the year 2016. “Traffic deaths, which we are most concerned about, has also increased significantly in the state. The 88 crashes recorded during the second quarter of 2016, resulted into the death of 55 persons and sadly, the 143 crashes recorded from April 2019 till date has claimed 69 lives, a 25 per cent increase,” he said. Oladele urged vehicle owners to ensure that their drivers comply with traffic regulations and have due regard for public safety. “Generally, road construction zones across the state, especially those along the Lagos – Ibadan and Lagos– Abeokuta Expressways, account for about 50 per cent of the crashes and deaths recorded in the state. While we appreciate the Federal Government for the on-going reconstruction works along these corridors, we also commend the construction companies for their professionalism and commitment to safety and prevention of crashes at the road construction zones. “These crashes and deaths recorded at road construction areas in the state are the results of motorist’s impatience, disregard for warning signs, traffic regulations and personal safety. If motorists adhere to the 50km/hr speed limit at construction zones, avoid hopping between lanes and shun dangerous act of taking the opposite route, there will be minimal cases of crashes at these construction areas,” he said.  102 killed, 473 injured in Ogun auto crashes in 3 months Ogun: Road crashes kill 102, injure 473 in 4 months FRSC records 676 road crashes in October – Corps Marshal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin