* To make position on state police known soon The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) has resolved to set up a security committee at the National Economic Council level towards tackling the growing rate of insecurity across the country. The chairman of the forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state made this known late Wednesday while briefing newsmen in Abuja. Twenty two governors attended the NGF meeting. It is the second meeting under the new leadership, our reporter learnt. According to Fayemi, the new leadership resolved to make security a reoccurring item on its agenda for the foreseeable future. “Governors have decided to retain security as a growing concern and a permanent issue on its agenda,” he said. He said state police was an issue of interest and concern to citizens and governors, adding that the forum would make its position known soon. He said the agenda of the new leadership also included human capital, job creation, constitutional reform particularly devolution, and strengthening of the forum’ s secretariat to support economic advisory, policy advisory , knowledge management and public financial management. Governor Fayemi said that members of the forum pledged to support the new leadership to promote collaboration and consensus among governors on matters of public policy. According to him, the forum would also re-launch its flagship State Review Mechanism programme designed to assist states foster good governance as well as accelerate the rate of development through periodic reviews of progress made by state governments. He said governors would be having a meeting with the World Bank and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation on ongoing development engagements across states on June 26. “The event will also host an IGR retreat with the Joint Tax Board and Chairmen of the Internal Revenue Service of states,” he added. The governors also pledged to work with the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) to strengthen investors’ engagements and promote strategic insights into states competitive advantages. The forum had earlier received a presentation on Sub-national Investment Promotion from Ms. Yewande Sadiku, Executive Secretary of the NIPC. Govs: No decision yet on state police Fayemi at NGF: The call to duty Fayemi emerges NGF chair, as governors plan to meet Buhari over insecurity Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin