Worried about insecurity among other things, the people of Benin, with the blessing of the Oba, invoked the spirits to cleanse the kingdom of evil-doers. A leader will always see to the betterment of his community. He or she will never allow any negative influence within his fold. While hard work is rewarded, indolence and doing things against the norm is rebuked. In fact, every community and religion adherents have their own way of purifying and sanctifying the land when it is perceived things happening are inimical to the development of the land and the society. Also, every society is endowed with certain basic sets of codes and ethics that regulate and govern their existence. As such, the revered people of Benin Kingdom in Edo State are not an exception. This formed part of the reasons traditional worshippers in the kngdom recently, on behalf of Oba Ewure II, as part of purification and sanctification invoked curses on those perpetuating sacrilegious act and vices in the kingdom. Armed with the full compliments of their spiritual endowments, the worshippers comprising of traditional priests of different divinities, deities, fraternities, cults and other stakeholders in the spirit realm jointly invoke and place curses on identified evil perpetrators. They wore white and red attires with different traditional weapons of war while heaping curses on those committing sacrileges against the land and throne of the kingdom. To commence the invocation of the curses, the spiritualists first gathered various items of traditional intermediary tools of communication and intercession to perform the rites of convoking the power of the guiding spirits of the ancestors to come and infuse their action with portent efficacy. Over the years, vices such as kidnappings, cultism, armed robbery, violence and wanton killing of innocent citizens have been happening in the kingdom unabated. The exercise was presided by the Ewaise Group headed by Chief Eguezigbon and Chief Ohen-Egie of Ogbeson. Besides, since the enthronement of the Oba Ewuare II as Oba of Benin, the monarch has carried out some reforms which have somehow brought sanity and discipline to the kingdom. Many Enigie and Edionwere have been suspended while other dethroned for committing acts inimical to Benin culture and tradition. Only recently, some individuals and groups tried to subvert the Benin culture and tradition by committing sacrilegious acts against the throne by calling for another kingdom with Benin. Interestingly, determine to address the trend, an act of purification and sanctification was performed by the various traditional groups including Ewaise, Igie-Ohen, and priestesses of various deities as well as market women.  Daily Trust on Sunday observed that the ancient Urhokpota ground venue of the purification was filled to capacity by various groups of traditional worshippers, market women and other interest groups who raise their voice to invoke and place curses on deviants that scandalously input insults and venom of the sanity of the sacred crown of Benin. During the cleansing, the traditional worshippers offered prayers to God and the ancestors to help avert all forms of evil, bloodshed, kidnapping, armed robbery, cult killings and illicit human trafficking from the Kingdom and Nigeria at large. Curses were heaped on the perceived enemies of Benin Kingdom and all those who have committed an affront and sacrilegious acts against the Benin throne and the kingdom. The traditional worshippers also placed curses on those who perpetrate evils and various crimes so that they will reap the consequences of their negative actions. Strikingly, various animals were slaughtered during the exercise to give efficacy to the curse and purification. The traditional worshippers later embarked on a procession with casket through some traditional routes and roads in Benin and visited a number of traditional sites, such as Aro-Edion-Edo, Aruosa, N’ Ogbelaka, Erimwindu, Ekpenede and Aro-Emotan shrines among others. A native of Benin kingdom, who only gave his name Osasu, told Daily Trust on Sunday that the purification is to ensure the wellbeing and ward off enemies of the Oba and the kingdom. He said those who fail to change after the curse are open to ancestral wrath and confined to suffer inevitable fate of destruction.   Igue Festival: A unique Benin celebration Planned installation of monarch causes storm between Ijaws and Binis Congratulations, Oba of Benin Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin