The All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Assembly candidates in the South East say some party leaders in the zone sacrificed their electoral fortune in a deal to get 25 per cent votes for President Muhammadu Buhari. The candidates, who are operating under the auspices of Conference of 2019 Southeast APC House of Assembly Candidates, claimed that the leaders negotiated the deal with the state governors in the zone. In a communiqué issued after a meeting held at the weekend in Abuja, they attributed the poor performance of the APC in the South East to alleged anti-party activities of the leaders. In the communique issued by the spokesman, Jude Okpor and signed by the duo of Tochukwu Onyedibe and Confidence Chukwuedozie, coordinator and secretary, respectively, they claimed that most of them also campaigned for the opposition parties. They hailed the party for setting up a committee to review anti-party activities during the last general elections and urged the party leadership to implement fully the report of the committee especially as it concerned the South East zone. This is “With the belief that the committee will be unbiased in the discharge of their duties in order to restore party discipline and loyalty with a view to repositioning the party in the zone,” the communique read. The conference, which voiced optimism in the growth and improved performance of the party in the zone, urged all organs of the party on the need for proactive programmes and early preparation towards the next elections. The conference also voiced dissatisfaction and concern over the imbalance in the composition of the National Assembly’s new leadership. It appealed to President Buhari and the national leadership of the APC to address the concern of the people of South East on inclusive governance so as to promote national cohesion. House of Representative candidate Vinmartin Obiora Ilo, while delivering a paper during the meeting on ‘Understanding politics and the Nigeria political environment; The South East perspective’, listed “lack of leadership, greed, primordial sentiments, marginalization, lack of sense of history, ethnic dislike and suspicion, infrastructural deficit, lack of strategy and constructive engagement as the challenges facing the zone. “The way forward for these challenges is unity of purpose, emergence of a new leadership, defined agenda and shared goals/objective, developing a workable strategy for engaging the rest of Nigeria, political education and synergy of South East energies,” he said. Buhari'll reform the army - Fashola SDP adopts Buhari, to work with APC govt after 2019 elections Group petitions APC over anti-party activities in Ondo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin