Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has urged the Federal Government to focus on quality infrastructure, policies and institutions to drive sustainable economic diversification. It insisted that it is difficult to drive domestic investment at current levels of interest rate of over 25% for most economic players. In a five-page agenda for economic diversification signed by its director general, Muda Yusuf and released in Lagos at the weekend, LCCI noted that the current multiplicity of rates is inimical to sustainable economic diversification. It said a forex regime that perpetuates a rent economy would not serve the cause of diversification.  It creates opportunities for arbitrage, corruption, resource misallocation and impedes the inflow of investment, and creates transparency issues in the allocation of forex, it added. LCCI said the tax policy needs to be better attuned to economic diversification through a reversal of the tax burden from investors to consumers. LCCI noted that the use of banks as collection agents for the FIRS is very disruptive, distracting, arbitrary, oppressive and unfair to investors. “It is a serious disincentive to investment and the promotion of financial inclusion.  This approach should be discontinued. Taxation should not be seen only as an instrument of revenue generation; it is also a potent instrument for stimulation of investment,” it stated. On trade policies, LCCI noted that they should be focused on incentivizing resource-based industries which typically have competitive advantage and good impact on the economy because of the high multiplier effect, adding that the relativity of tariffs between Nigeria and neighbouring countries should also be considered in the formulation of trade policy. “A great deal of potentials still needs to be unlocked in the oil and gas sector – refineries, fertiliser plants, gas based industries, petrochemicals. “We need to put an end to being just a crude oil exporter to self-sufficiency in petroleum products and exporter of refined products and other gas related products,” it stated.  Sustain policies that catalysed exit from recession, OPS tells FG Experts advocate repositioning  of economy MAN, LCCI excited as economy exits recession Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin