Operatives of the Anti-One Chance unit of the police have arrested a 28-year-old man, Osita Chukwuemeka, said to be a notorious ‘one chance’ robber at Angwan Cement, Kado Abuja. A statement by the command’s spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the suspect, until his arrest, was on the command’s watch list for his nefarious activities, adding that effort has been intensified to arrest his accomplices. He also said police detectives acting on a complaint have arrested two other fraudsters, whose names he gave as Uche Ugbabor and Emeka Okafor, at their hideout in Shagari Quarters at Deidei, Abuja. He said the suspects who posed as stranded foreign nationals to lure and defraud their victims, belonged to a notorious 419 gang that had been terrorising unsuspecting persons around Kubwa/Deidei axis. He said effort was being intensified to arrest their cohorts who were now at large. The statement further said police from the Anti-One Chance unit, acting on a tip off, raided some notorious 419/one chance robbery meeting points at Ungwan Shehu and Ungwan Cement in Karimo. According to him,  the raid led to the arrest of one Uche Johnson Eze, 38, Ekechukwu Eze, 27, Solomon Ifeanyi, 31 and Onome Emele, 33, who were all of Ungwan Shehu Karimo as well as Sunday Agbom of Giri, Gwagwalada. “Also arrested is one John Idehi, 48 years, a member of the one chance/419 syndicate, who posed as a native doctor and custodian of the concoctions purportedly used for doubling money for their unsuspecting victims,” he said. He said one black KIA vehicle with registration number ABC 569 HA, which was used by the suspects in their operation had been recovered as exhibit. Manzah said all suspects would be arraigned in court when investigations were concluded, saying raids on one chance robbers/fraudsters  hideouts was an ongoing exercise.  page 46 9 suspected robbers nabbed in Abuja Abuja: Police recover 12 stolen cars, arrest 89 suspects Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin