The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Monday, met with top security chiefs in the state and unveiled his plans on how to overhaul activities of commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as okada riders in the state. The Governor at a post-meeting briefing with journalists in Lagos said, there are emerging security threats and there are urgent needs to fashion out new strategies to curtail such. Sanwo-Olu said the security overhaul would also focus on activities of Okada riders and road regulations, stressing that his government would embark on advocacy on the existing restriction laws for motorcycles. “That’s one of the things we have agreed to do. So, we will be embarking on a lot of advocacy on all media of communications to tell people about traffic and restriction laws. We don’t want to be making arrest without reminding ourselves of the right things to do and how to do it. It is when we have done that and some of us refuse to be compliant that the full wrath of the law would be applied,” Governor Sanwo-Olu said. According to the Governor, the state must re-organise the security template in order to make the state safe for business and living. He said security agencies had been placed on alert in preparation for the development. He added that the reform would lead to a new engagement for security operatives and help in achieving efficiency in combating crimes. “We are just coming out of a security meeting and I wish to assure Lagos residents that issues that bother on contemporary security challenges, including cultism, kidnapping, armed robbery, pipeline vandalism and indiscriminate driving against traffic were at the top of discussion. “We are going to revamp our security architecture. All our security formations have been briefed and they are well situated and well informed at keeping Lagos safe and secured,” he said.  Sanwo-Olu to residents: Ensure full compliance with laws AD files petition to stop Sanwo-Olu’s swearing-in Lagos: How Sanwo-Olu emerged as Ambode’s albatross Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin