The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has approved a landing permit for the HYLAS – 4 satellite space segment for Avanti Communications over Nigerian territory. Speaking at the presentation in Abuja, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, said the landing permit is first of its kind in the history of satellite communications in Nigeria and would ensure Nigerians enjoy a better alternative with regards to internet penetration. Prof Danbatta, who was represented by the Director, Spectrum Administration, Mr Austine Nwaulune, said with the permit, internet penetration rate will increase. He said the satellite uses the latest Ka-band satellite technology and has additional capacity to the tune of 2GHz. “This high capacity service has come to Nigeria through an international gateway that has been deployed by one of our local operators. With such high capacity facility in place and easily accessible, our local operators can now be more encouraged to deploy services via satellite to serve the underserved/unserved areas hence bridging the digital divide currently experienced by the nation,” he said. The Director, Regulatory, of Avanti Communications Group, Ann Vandenbroucke, in her presentation noted that the landing permit is one of a kind as it would deploy the Hylas 4 satellite in providing  better alternative services to subscribers anywhere in Nigeria the way it has in other parts of the world. She explained further that the emphasis laid by Avanti in infrastructure technology would further enhance the productivity of technology companies, create employment, and propel facilities through a web of telecoms echo system.  Satellite draft guidelines will open market to investors - NCC NCC boss lists ways to sustain tempo of telecoms development NCC to deploy broadband infrastructure to rural areas Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin