The Africa Diplomatic Group in Nigeria have made a donation of N1.5 million to the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and internally Displaced Persons (NCFR) to mark the occasion of this year’s Africa Day. This year’s Africa Day was tagged: ‘The Year of Refugees, Returnees and Internally Displaced Persons: Towards Durable Solutions to Forced Displacement in Africa.’ The Cameroonian High Commissioner and Dean of the African Diplomatic Group, Mr. Salaheddine Abbas Ibrahima, made the announcement during the commemoration of Africa Day in Abuja on Friday. “This years theme is very important, especially here in Nigeria where there are almost 2 million refugees and IDPs. Because of this, the African ambassadors decided to make a donation of N1.5 million to the Nigerian Commission of Refugees, Migrants and IDPs,” he stated. President Abdul Fattah el Sisi of Egypt in his speech delivered by the Egyptian ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Aseem Muhammed Hanafi Elseify, reiterated the importance of African unity and launching the African Free Trade Area. “The role of Africa’s dynamic youths and also the dividends of empowering women as pillars of our vision for a better Africa can not be overlooked. “Furthermore, all governments currently underscore the vital role of the private sector and the added value of joint partnerships towards achieving the various continental and domestic projects and ventures. In this regard, I am particularly pleased with the steps taken to launch the African Continental Free Trade Area which is expected to boost intra-African trade,” the statement said. Half of world refugees, IDPs are children- UNHCR Forging a future for displaced persons FG, UN, ECOWAS donate to refugees/IDPs in Nasarawa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin