The Federal Government has inaugurated the Board of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), four years after the agency had remained without one. The board members are Olufemi Lijadu, chairman; Mr. Lamido Yuguda, non-executive commissioner; Mrs Rekiya Ladi non-executive commissioner; Mr. Okokon Ekanem Udo, representative of Ministry of Finance; Mrs Angela Adewumi Sere-Ejembi, representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); and Ms. Mary Uduk Acting DG. Others are Mr. Henry Rowlands, Acting Executive Commissioner Corporate Services; Mr. Isyaku Tilde, Acting Executive Commissioner Operations; and Mr. Reginald Karawusa, Acting Executive Commissioner, Legal and Enforcement. While inaugurating the board, yesterday, the Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Finance, Mr. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse, said the Nigerian capital market is growing and evolving and to sustain the growth and eventually transform to a world class capital market, transparency and investor confidence are key. He said like world class markets, the Nigerian capital market should be characterised by high levels of liquidity, depth, breath and sophistication with a strong domestic investor base. He said the capital market should “be innovative, transparent due to robust disclosure regimes, and efficient both in price discovery and in the allocation of capital. We must have it in mind that world-class capital markets do far more than provide access to capital. They are enablers of socio-economic development because they hasten the rate of capital formation, foster a meritocracy and promote good corporate governance, innovation and entrepreneurship.” FG to inaugurate SEC board Monday Absence of boards, commissioners slows SEC, character commission SEC launches Capital Market Development Fund Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin