The United Nations (UN) Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, has said the historic celebration of June 12 Democracy Day was largely due to the success of the 2019 general elections. Guterres said this, yesterday, in Abuja when he led a delegation on a working visit to the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He was represented by his Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa, Mr Mohammed Ibn Chambas. According to him, for the UN, the relationship with INEC was not only during election time. “We want to once again commend the leadership of INEC, the federal commissioners, commissioners at state level and other leaders of INEC for the work that was done on the recent elections despite the challenges we expected in an exercise of this magnitude. “And of yesterday we were all celebrating the June 12 Democracy Day, I should say it was due to the peaceful election that was conducted during the last general elections. “The elections that ushered in the new dispensation of the second term of office of President Muhammadu Buhari, who was sworn-in on May 29 and whose inauguration took place yesterday during the democracy day celebration,” he said. He urged INEC to find a way of tackling proliferation of parties as was done by some other African countries, saying the last elections which recorded 73 presidential candidates showed the need for action, especially on the mode of registration, as was done in Senegal, Benin Republic which had over 249 registered parties. He also urged INEC to consolidate the inclusion of women, youths and persons with disabilities (PWDs). He said a stable democratic Nigeria will affect the stability of West Africa and Africa as a continent, hence the interest of the UN to strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and stability. Responding, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission has resolved to engage the leadership of the just inaugurated 9th National Assembly with a view to strengthening the legal framework of the nation’s electoral system. The INEC boss whose office is currently carrying out a post-mortem of the 2019 general elections, expressed optimism that the review will be concluded in the next two months, so as to have useful lessons that would guide relevant stakeholders working to improve on the legal framework. Yakubu regretted that a new legal framework could not be developed before the last general elections. “We look forward to any suggestions that you may have for improving the electoral process in Nigeria as we prepare for future elections. In particular, we need to focus attention on the electoral legal framework among several areas of reform,” he said. UN Sec Gen praises Buhari’s integrity, corruption war 2019: UN pledge technological support for INEC International observers urge INEC to adhere to new election dates Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin