It was not the first time the well in which four persons lost their lives last Sunday in Sokoto was being desilted. It was the third since its construction about a year and two months ago, but turned out to be a most deadly mission recorded in Baiche area of Yabo town, headquarters of Yabo local government area of Sokoto state. Residents of the area were thrown into mourning following the deaths in the process of removal of earthy and other materials from the well. Daily Trust Saturday learnt that two of the deceased, a father and his son, were experienced local well diggers. The incident was said to have occurred at about 9am on Sunday when a resident of the area who was identified as Malam Aliyu Shekare employed the well digger, fondly called ‘Mai Zuma’, to desilt his well. Mai Zuma, a honey seller cum well digger, came with his son, entered the well to pump out the muddy water inside the well with a pumping machine but got suffocated and died. Daily Trust Saturday gathered that the son also died while trying to rescue his father. “The father shouted for help when he became exhausted and was suffocating to death which prompted the son to enter the well to rescue him but also suffocated and died in the process,” a resident of the area told Daily Trust Saturday. Speaking with our correspondent, Malam Aliyu Shekare, 43, said: “I was shocked and distraught when I heard the devastating news. It was the same Mai Zuma who constructed the well for me and it was not the first time he was desilting it. It was the third. The well is 8.5 feet and on two previous occasions, Mai Zuma desilted it successfully.” Shekare said he constructed the well at over N170,000 over a year ago to add to the existing one in the area. Daily Trust Saturday gathered that the two other victims, Yahya Shanu – a teacher, married with two children and Zahradeen Dodo -a graduate of Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, also died while trying to rescue the two well diggers.  Zahradeen, Daily Trust Saturday learnt, was due for his one-year mandatory National Youth Service in Osun State had concluded arrangement to travel to the state the next day. It was also gathered that other youths in the area had wanted to enter the well to rescue the victims but were prevented by an elderly man who warned of more casulties if people continued to enter the well. It was then that the community notified the nearest fire service station and some fire fighters were mobilized who, with the support of a local diver, were said to have recovered the bodies around 2pm same day. One of the officers of the Sokoto State Fire Service confirmed that the deceased were suffocated to death by the emission from the machine they were using in desilting the well. Police Public Relation Officer Muhammad Sadiq said they were using the machine to evacuate the water from the well before they got suffocated due to shortage of oxygen and too much carbon-monoxide produced by the machine. The Ward Head of Baiche, 70-year-old Muhammadu Dan Magaji said since 16 years on the throne, it was the first time the community is recording such calamity. Dan Magaji said they had taken everything as God’s will. He said they would resume the use of the well which had been shut since the ugly incident. “The well and water are harmless,” he declared. Sokoto residents await emirates as new districts emerge Five-year-old girl dies inside well Five-year-old girl dies inside well Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin