The Chairman of Kwali Area Council, Mr. Danladi Bomboyi Chiya, has promised to take care of a set of triplets born at the council’s general hospital. Chiya made the promise when he visited Kwali General Hospital, yesterday, where a housewife, Mrs. Praise Sunday, gave birth to triplets through caesarean operation on Tuesday. He said he would support the family as well as other less privileged patients who were on admission in the hospital as part of the Democracy Day celebration. “As a grassroots politician, I deem it necessary to support and take care of the newly born triplets throughout my three years tenure in office especially that the woman’s husband has lost his job. I will direct the social welfare department of the council to come and take stock of all the necessary items the triplets need,” he said. The chairman commended the management of the hospital for carrying out successful delivery of the triplets, and assured the hospital of his administration’s support by providing diesel for the hospital’s generator. The mother of the triplets, Mrs. Praise Sunday, from Cross River State, thanked the council chairman for the gesture, and prayed for God to guide and protect him throughout his tenure. She appealed to well-meaning Nigerians and philanthropists to emulate the council chairman and help her with the upkeep of the babies. The woman’s husband, Mr. Nwevo Sunday, was on ground during the chairman’s visit to the hospital. The chairman also went round some wards in the hospital where he doled out  undisclosed sums of money to patients on admission at the hospital.  Kwali: Dangara’s 42-year-old clinic in dilapidated state 20-year-old mother of triplets calls for assistance Woman gives birth  to triplets in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin