The senator representing Sokoto South senatorial zone, Abubakar Shehu Tambuwal, on  Saturday told the Election Petition Tribunal in Sokoto State that he bears Tambuwal to identify with his town and that there was no contradiction in his school certificates. The legislator said his credential bore Abubakar Shehu Arabu, stating that Arabu was his grandfather’s name and a family name, while Tambuwal was used for political reasons because he hailed from the town. The immediate past senator representing Sokoto South senatorial zone, Senator Ibrahim Danbaba, of the PDP is challenging the election of Senator Tambuwal on the ground that he was not qualified to contest the election. Danbaba said there was non-compliance with the provision of the Electoral Act and that the respondent did not score the majority of the lawful votes. While testifying at the tribunal, Tambuwal said he lost his original certificates and had to re-apply for them from all the schools he attended. Tambuwal, who was being cross examined by petitioner’s counsel, Mr Samuel Zibiri, SAN, said he  deposed to affidavit and obtained re-issued copies from the schools. The senator disclosed that he completed primary school in 1971 in Tambuwal town, and that he attended Government Technical College Farfaru in Sokoto and secured admission to Bayero University, Kano with the credentials he obtained. He however said the university was in the best position to answer questions on his admission. Tambuwal who was the principal defence witness was earlier led in evidence by his counsel, Chief Steve Nwoke. Senator Danbaba, a principal petitioner’s witness, had also testified at the tribunal. At Saturday’s sitting, chairman of the tribunal, Justice Muhammad Ubale, gave each party seven days to file written addresses and two days each to respond. He then adjourned the case to July 3, for adoption of written addresses.  Election tribunal receives 5  petitions in Sokoto Tambuwal’s biggest political gamble Tambuwal’s political godfather, 10,000 others dump PDP for APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin