This is not the best of time for the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole because of his renewed travails in the aftermath of the last general elections which saw the ruling party losing grounds. Oshiomhole’s leadership style has been called to question by top echelons of the party, critical stakeholders and aggrieved leaders. However, sources said Oshiomhole still feels confident of retaining his seat considering the support he enjoys from President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC national leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and some governors. Though there had been grumbling here and there, it was Oshiomhole’s second-in-command from the North, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, whose call for the party chairman to resign reverberated and gave other leaders the courage to amplify the call. Shuaibu said Oshiomhole lacks “the necessary composure, capabilities and the requisite experience to run a political Party.” But credible sources said Shu’aibu did not just wake up and asked Oshiomhole to resign. The current political test facing Oshiomhole, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered, seemed to have the tacit backing of some aggrieved former and incumbent governors in the ruling APC. Four categories of people are said to be behind the ongoing efforts to dislodge the former governor of Edo State who steered the affairs of the party during the recent general elections. The first category, sources said, included governors who were aggrieved over the eventual fate of the party in Zamfara State following the decision of the Supreme Court that sacked the APC governor as well as members of State and National Assembly. Those in the second category were key stakeholders who are still angry with Oshiomhole for preventing them from having full control over the choice of candidates during the last election. The third category is those who believe that his leadership might prevent them from having a say in the primaries for forthcoming governorship polls in particular and 2023 elections in general. Those who believe that the former labour leader can no longer superintend over the party having lost five states in the recent general elections are in the fourth category. The Pain of Losing 5 States When Oshiomhole assumed the mantle of leadership at the June 23, 2018 National Convention, the APC controlled 24 States. But shortly before the primaries for the general elections in 2018, the governors of Benue, Kwara, and Sokoto defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), leaving the APC with 21 States. The party, however, gained one more state with the victory of Dr Kayode Fayemi in the 2018 governorship contest. At the end of the 2019 general elections, the APC lost five states including Adamawa, Bauchi, Imo, Oyo, and Zamfara, to the PDP. It, however, won Gombe and Kwara states. The party was consequently left with 19 states. Despite the fact that the APC still controls majority of states leaving the PDP with 16 and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) with one, the issue has remained a thorny matter in the current demand for the resignation of Oshiomhole. Senator Shuaibu, in his May 27, letter wherein he asked Oshiomhole to toe the path of honour and step aside said the former labour leader had failed to add value or build on what he met on assumption of office. “We had 23 states in 2015, but after the 2019 elections we lost 7 states! We also had 60 senators in 2015 at the end of the election count; we now end up with 57 senators in 2019! You were not brought in to lose election. It is absolutely unacceptable! “What this entails is that for any senator to become a presiding officer, he needs to go and kneel down before the PDP Senators and beg for support! And to make things worse, you announced that APC will not allow any PDP Senator to be appointed as committee chairman except the committees statutorily meant for the opposition members of the Senate. “That is never the tradition of the legislature anywhere! The legislature is the house of collaboration and lobby, and you can never succeed with hostile approach, you must lobby, seek for cooperation of members across party divides. If you don’t know, you have made the situation worse than it seems. Try and use your calculator and you will find that as at now, if anybody backed by the PDP members wants to become Senate president, all he needs is the support of only 6 APC senators to win the election on the floor of the Senate! “Chairman, strategies are not announced on television, they are discussed at caucuses. We have no reason whatsoever to go about it this way if we really are serious in building this institution that many leaders suffered to put in place,” Shuaibu said. While reacting to the letter, the Oshiomhole-led APC said the party lost some states to the PDP due to the indiscipline and inaction of the NWC under Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in an interview with journalists, said if Oyo, Imo, Bauchi, Adamawa, and Zamfara states were taken one by one, it will be discovered that there were peculiar issues in the respective states that accounted for how the APC lost them rather than the voters preferring the PDP. The APC spokesperson said the former NWC led by Chief Odigie-Oyegun lacked the courage to confront the political despots who could not operate by the party’s rules. The APC spokesman, who said the APC had improved significantly on the result of 2015 under the leadership of Oshiomhole despite some 2019 election losses recorded in some states, added that the national chairman cannot be blamed for the avoidable losses recorded as some stakeholders failed to follow the party’s directives and ensure internal democracy. But Odigie-Oyegun, in a swift reaction through his public affairs adviser, Chief Ray Morphy, said Oshiomhole was only looking for scapegoats. He wondered why Oshiomhole found it hard to function without looking for excuses and scapegoats. The former APC national chairman, who said Oshiomhole ran the most fraudulent primaries in the history of politics in Nigeria, stated INEC said so when it adjudged his primaries as the worst so far and the courts’ decisions to upturn many APC primaries for being undemocratic and less than fair. Big battle for 2023 Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that the current travail of Oshiomhole could also not be distanced from the impending battle for the soul of the APC ahead of 2023 elections. It was learnt that some of the forces, if not all, that pushed for the elongation of the tenure of Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC were still active. It would be recalled that it took the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari before the immediate past NWC resolved to conduct fresh congresses and national convention that ushered in new executives at various levels of the APC in 2018. Sources said anti-Tinubu forces in the ruling party believed that their interests would remain in jeopardy as long as Oshiomhole remains the APC National Chairman not forgetting the impact of the ongoing surreptitious but aggressive struggle for the 2023 presidential ticket. Will Oshiomhole survive? Party sources said the current plot to oust Oshiomhole might not succeed because he still enjoyed the support of President Buhari and APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. On Thursday, at least 28 APC state chairmen passed a vote of confidence in the embattled APC national chairman. The Enugu State party chairman and Secretary of Forum of APC State Chairmen, Dr Ben Nwoye, who briefed journalists after a meeting with NWC led by Comrade Oshiomhole, dismissed all the allegations levied against the national chairman as untrue. Dr Nwoye, who was asked about the outcome of the meeting, said, “In attendance were 21 states and seven sent excuses and apologies. We met with national chairman of our great party in company of members of NWC. “We talked on relevant issues to the party. We discussed in details on party unity. At the end of the meeting, we were informed fully on party issues and unity of the party. Based on the information we have and the readiness of National Chairman to lead this country to the Next Level, we have all unanimously passed a vote of confidence on the person of the National Chairman and the NWC. “Any news making around that sometimes somewhere our National Chairman is facing troubled time, we need to bring that to a rest. He is our Chairman. He is a strong leader. He has all it takes to lead this party to the Next Level.” The NWC also passed a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole. However, sources told the Daily Trust on Sunday that the vote of confidence passed on Oshiomhole was not from the bottom of the heart of those who did it. “I don’t want to be quoted but the fact is that Oshiomhole and those supporting him did so many things to influence the decision of state party chairmen, especially in states controlled by governors in the good books of the chairman,” one of the sources said. However, another source said it is not yet a bed of roses for Oshiomhole as his adversaries could still woo the state chairmen by influencing their thought. Big hammer looms on Shuaibu On Thursday, the APC NWC constituted a five-man Disciplinary Committee headed by Otunba Niyi Adebayo to investigate the allegation levelled by Sen. Lawal Shuaibu against Oshiomhole. The NWC faulted the allegations by Shuaibu, describing the development as “issues involving its collective decisions.” The decision was contained in a statement signed by the party’s spokesman Issa-Onilu, after the 38th Regular NWC meeting. The committee mandated the committee to submit its report within 7 days, saying they should also probe Sen. Shuaibu for allegedly instigating senators/members of the House of Representatives against the decision of the party on the choice of the presiding officers for both chambers at the banquet Hall, Presidential Villa. The statement said Sen. Shuaibu’s action was particularly embarrassing by moving around the senators/members of the House of Representatives to revolt while Mr. President was making his concluding remarks on the need for APC to present one candidate to avoid a divided house. Sources said Sen. Shuaibu might be expelled as a faction of the party in Zamfara, his home State, had already recommended him for expulsion. How Buhari’s posture fueled APC crisis Analysts believe that President Buhari’s posture as to how the APC should be ran contributed in escalating the crisis that engulfed the ruling party. According to them, the president’s attitude to political activities long before the party’s congresses at different levels,  to primaries and during the numerous litigations that trailed it, worsened the situation. The loss suffered by the party, it was widely believed by politicians in affected states would have been tackled, if President Buhari had played the role of a father who commands a lot of respect. “The president is the father and the leader of the party. He should share the blame in the loss suffered by our party because if he had played his role well, we wouldn’t have suffered this much,” an APC chieftain said. He said he was baffled when he saw that shortly after the party primaries, the president continued to accommodate aggrieved governors who remained in the party but romanced with opposition political parties. The president had at different times hosted the immediate past Governor of Ogun state, Ibikunle Amosun and the state governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Abdulkadir Adekunle Akinlade, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Another source said the hosting of Amosun and his political godson gave a wrong signal in the state with some APC members saying after all, everyone could eat his cake and have it. Similarly, President Buhari hosted the then gubernatorial candidate of APC in Oyo State, Dapo Abiodun, and a chieftain of the party, Chief Segun Osoba. Luckily for the party, it won the state. For Imo, the accommodation of the Rochas Okorocha and his godson, Uche Nwosu who was the governorship candidate of Action Alliance (AA), dashed the chances of the APC in the state. The president’s remarks at the Dan Anyiam Stadium, Owerri during his campaign in Imo State when he said members of APC should vote for candidate of their choice irrespective of intra-party squabbles, affected the party’s fortunes. It was same scenario in Zamfara as analysts believe that the president’s failure to call to order the aggrieved party members in the state chapter led to the electoral misfortune of the party. While the immediate past governor, Abdulaziz Yari frustrated the party’s bid to conduct primaries, the legal battle by Sen. Kabiru Marafa and other aggrieved members of the party, gave the PDP the state. “But can you blame Marafa and others for going to court,” a chieftain in Zamfara asked rhetorically. “The situation is the same in so many states where aggrieved members went to court after realizing that there is no any party machinery on ground that could address their grievances. “And with all sense of sincerity, is it not the president who asked all aggrieved members to go to court and seek redress? “The result of that clearance by the president is what we are witnessing today in many states where PDP candidates are simply reaping from where they did not sow,” he said. But Issa-Onilu had insisted that Buhari, Oshiomhole or the NWC of the party should not be blamed for APC’s setbacks. “The fault is not that of President Buhari who insists on fair deal for all Nigerians or for Comrade Oshiomhole who is driving the change agenda with conviction. Neither is it for the NWC that has taken on the responsibility to do it right, even with attendant temporary consequences,” he said. Shopping for Oshiomhole’s replacement It was gathered that despite the accommodations they got in the Villa, the likes of Okorocha and some immediate past governors, as well as the likes of former Minister Adebayo Shittu and some “disgruntled” NWC members have already started shopping for a new chairman that would be acceptable to many. A credible source said, “Though Oshiomhole has the support of Tinubu, and by extension President Buhari, some former governors and other party members are putting their cards together so as to change the narrative.” “I don’t have much details of the plan they have but it seems they want to bring back the issue of how some candidates for different elective offices bought their way to get the tickets they rode on to win elections. Many of such people have lost the mandate in different courts,” he said. APC coalition demands Oshiomhole's resignation Calls for Oshiomhole sack opens new cracks in APC You lack moral ground to ask me to leave, Oshiomhole tells Saraki Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin