A 38-year-old tailor, Idris Sanusi, on Tuesday appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos for alleged assault on an Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company,(IKEDC) staff. Sanusi, who resides at No.23, Bakare St., Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos, is facing a five-count-charge of unlawful interference, conspiracy, willful damage, assault and breach of peace. He however, pleaded not guilty. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Kenrich Nomayo, told the court that the defendant committed the offences with others still at large on June 7 by 10.00 a.m.at No.156 Awolowo Way, Ikeja. Nomayo said the defendant conducted himself in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by stopping the complainant, Mr Jamiu Mohammed from carrying out his lawful duties. He said the defendant willfully damaged the complainant’s Xiami Note 3 phone valued at N40,000. Nomayo submitted that the defendant unlawfully interfered with IKEDC electric power. “The complainant and his team were going about their lawful duty which was ‘monitoring and investigating light’ when they saw a ladder, erected against a building. “He tried to remove the ladder, but was accosted by the defendant, who twisted his hands and damaged his phone in the process,” he said. Nomayo said the offences contravene Section 168, 173, 340, 350 and 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs T.A. Ojo admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum. Ojo ordered that the surety must be gainfully employed with evidence of two years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. She adjourned the case until Aug.15 for mention. (NAN) Spiritual cleansing: 2 prophets remanded for allegedly forcing house help to swallow iron cross 3 persons remanded in prison over assault on Ikeja Electric workers Estate agent arraigned over N215,000 fraud Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin