Nigeria based plastic manufacturing firm, Sarsoli Industries said it will showcase Nigerian made products at the largest global plastic industry fair: K Plast Print Pack Trade Show scheduled to hold in Dusseldorf, Germany. Managing Director of the firm, Jai Changrani said their third exhibition at K has brought in more innovations to the company which they expect would continue. The Lagos based plastic firm which started operations in 2011 is the first from West Africa to exhibit at the K Fair in 2013. It also participated in the trade fair in 2016 and will participate in this year’s fair happening October. Back home, Sarsoli was also at the K event in the last 5th Plast Print Pack Trade Show 2019 which held in Landmark, Lagos. Changrani further stated, that being at the K Fair gives them the first-hand information on new technology introduction in the plastic and allied industries, adding that it was after Sarsoli exhibited at K Fair in 2013, that they started exporting master-batches to neighboring countries of Nigeria in West Africa who showed interest in their products in 2014. Already, Sarsoli Industries has now expanded to Ghana where they have an office. “The K Trade Fair has been instrumental in helping us expand to our target market across West Africa sub-region and such focus on ECOWAS countries provides zero import duty. This has made our products cheaper, compared to importing from somewhere. “In addition, operating within ECOWAS makes supply time fast and foreign exchange income is generated by exports”, the Changrani stated. Currently, the company services the plastic industry which is one of the largest industries in Nigeria, producing items like jerry cans, shopping bags, chairs, tables, buckets, sacks, mats etc.  Local, foreign participants kick over low sales as Lagos fair closes today Kaduna fair complex best but under utilised — Pioneer president Dangote group to unveil new products at Lagos fair Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin