The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, has said apathy among the younger generation of soldiers has caused recent setbacks in fighting operations. He made this known during his speech in Abuja, yesterday, at the Army Headquarters Transformational Leadership Workshop for midlevel officers/soldiers. He said, “It is unfortunate, but the truth is that almost every setback the Nigerian Army has had in our operations in recent times can be traced to insufficient willingness to perform assigned tasks: or simply insufficient commitment to a common national/military course by those at the frontlines.” “Many of those on whom the responsibility for physical actions against the adversary squarely falls are yet to fully take ownership of our common national or Service cause,” he added. He noted that the Transformational Leadership Workshop will remind and clarify to participants what the President and Commander in Chief meant by: “This generation and indeed, future generations of Nigerians have no other country but Nigeria; we must remain here and salvage it together.” He said the Nigerian Army (NA) has had successes over the years in the grooming of military leaders, noting that this is evident in the many successes that the Army has achieved in operations, and the performance of troops in international/multinational operations. “But we all know that professional capacity is not a sufficient condition to succeed in a task; willingness to perform the task is equally necessary,” he added. In response to questions by Daily Trust over Buratai’s statement on troop’s apathy, the Executive Secretary, Centre for Crisis Communication (CCC), Air Commodore Yusuf Anas said as the Chief of Army Staff, nobody knows the army better than Buratai. However, he noted that judging the state of mind of fighting troops, one must take cognizance of factors relating to the welfare of troops, logistics, morale of troops, and rotation of troops in the frontlines. Also speaking to Daily Trust, the chairman of the Abuja chapter of ASIS International, Kabir Adamu said the comments by the COAS is a simplification of a complex matter. Adamu lamented that often Forward Operating Bases in the fringes of the North East around the Lake Chad Region are being attacked because of failure in strategic planning to ensure their safety. He said lack of proper communication, equipment and strategic planning is to blame for the recent setback. Buratai: The hero who made the difference How we spent funds for military operations — Buratai Buratai: 23 soldiers killed in Metele, Boko Haram uses drones, mercenaries Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin