Governor of Kaduna State Malam Nasir el-Rufai has explained the decision of the leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to pair Femi Gbajabiamila and Ahmed Idris Wase as speaker and deputy speaker of the next House of Representatives. The governor, who spoke while receiving the 121 members-elect who were on a consultation tour of the North West at the government house in Kaduna, said having confirmed that the president had decided on Gbajabiamila, Wase had to be prevailed upon to accept to be deputy since he posed the biggest threat to Gbajabiamila. El-Rufai said it was after he confirmed that Wase posed the biggest threat to Gbajabiamila’s ambition that he met Wase in line with his agreement with the president and thereafter took him to the president who also convinced him to drop his speakership ambition for Gbajabiamila. The governor said Wase said though he had a big chance of winning, but as his elder and out of respect for the president he had to step down even though he was yet to consult with his associates. Said El-Rufai: “I told Mr. President, I said this time you have to be involved in this (election of National Assembly leaders); you can’t sit back and people would say ‘the president said….’ “I said therefore if you permit me, I will be keeping watch, I will be talking to members-elect, whenever I see a potential challenge, a credible challenge to the emergence of Femi as speaker and Ahmad (Lawan) as Senate president, I will take it up and I will get you involved, and he agreed,” El-Rufai said during the meeting. “And this is why the first thing I did, with what was going on, I came to the conclusion that Hon. Wase was the only candidate credible enough to be an obstacle and challenge to Femi Gbaja. “So, I called him and told him about the president’s decision. I also went to the president and told him there is need to talk to Hon. Wase because of the credible threat he poses to your preferred candidate, Femi. “The president invited Wase and told him ‘Look, I know you are qualified to be speaker. I know my decision may be unfair to you but please consider stepping down for Femi because I already made my decision on him.’ “Wase replied saying ‘even though I feel sure I have the number to win if we go into contest, I cannot afford to do so after you the President who I respect as a leader and as an elder, has spoken to me. I’ve been trained to respect my leaders and my elders. I will agree to step down and work with Femi Gbajabiamila’,” he said. Buhari, not Tinubu chose Gbajabiamila for speaker, El-Rufai says Northern governors back Gbajabiamila for speaker Senate Presidency: Goje’s imminent entry brings new twist Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin