The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has said in spite of pockets of insecurity, the crime rate in the country is declining. He stated this on Monday in his address during the monthly conference of Commissioner of Police and above, held at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. He said, “It is noted that while there are still isolated cases of internal security breaches which often attract publicity and national attention, the crime rate in recent times has been on the decline. This is in contrast to the criminal records over the preceding months.” He explained that this is because of the enhancement of the institutional capacity of the Nigeria Police to respond to internal security threats and undertake intelligence-led operations. He said the successes achieved are linked to ‘Operation Puff Adder’ which has been a very potent anti-crime vehicle of the Nigeria Police. He said “a total of 424 kidnappers were arrested between 10th May 2019, and 14th, June 2019. The highest number of 101 kidnap suspects were arrested in Kaduna state, as 54 suspects were apprehended in Nasarawa state and 32 in Taraba state.” He added that a total of 44 murder suspects were arrested during the period under review, with the highest number of seven in FCT and six in Kano state. He said 276 armed robbery suspects were arrested within the period with the highest number of 38 in Edo state, followed by 25 in Nasarawa state and 23 in FCT. He said a total of 10,860 ammunitions of various descriptions and calibre were recovered while a total of 301 firearms including a Rocket Launcher, AK47 assault rifles, pistols and locally made gun, were recovered from criminal elements across the country. He said the highest number of 80 from Katsina state, followed by Edo state with 26 and Kaduna state with 25. He said, “176 suspected cultists were arrested across the country while 77 stolen vehicles were recovered by Operation Puff Adder operatives nationwide between 10th May 2019 and 14th June 2019, with the highest number of 29 in FCT.” How acting IGP can tackle insecurity, reform police JUST IN: 1,071 Nigerians die in crime related incidents in four months - IG‎P‎ The 8th Senate, not IGP Idris, is real enemy of democracy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin