The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has constituted a Task Force to halt the occurrence of some pilgrims over-staying their visa permit while on Hajj with the directive of being pre-emptive of culprits. A statement issued on Thursday by Fatima Sanda Usara, Head, Public Affairs Division, NAHCON, said the membership was drawn from various security agencies and the commission’s staff. Similarly, the commission has also concluded a three-day induction training and inauguration of staff committees charged with the responsibility of monitoring service providers for Nigerian pilgrims in both Makkah and Madinah. NAHCON Chairman, Barrister Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammad, while inaugurating the committees in Abuja, admonished members on some issues necessary for the comfort of pilgrims. These includes allocating rooms and getting them ready before arrival of pilgrims, saying that they must not be allowed to stay for long in hotel reception upon arrival. “Similarly, there must not be overcrowding in rooms, pilgrims must not be served cold or unwholesome meals or unwholesome or fruits,” said Barr. Muhammad. He also enjoined the committees to ensure that there was no breach of contract on the part of any service provider, and where such occurs, the providers must be sanctioned appropriately. He drew their attention to the matters of accommodation security, sanitation, provision of toiletries and constant changing of beddings. The chairman urged members of the respective committees to always discharge their duties diligently and not to compromise the pilgrims’ well-being but resist temptation and bad temperament, bearing in mind that there will be accountability before the Almighty. 2019 Hajj: NAHCON plans central accommodation, uniform identity for Nigerian pilgrims 2019 Hajj: NAHCON set up committees on central accommodation, uniform identity for Nigerian pilgrims 2019 Hajj: NAHCON signs airlift agreement with air carriers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin