Bauchi State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal has adjourned its pre-hearing sitting on petitions submitted by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and other opposition parties challenging the victory of Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Speaking during the tribunal’s sitting in Bauchi on Monday, the presiding judge, Salihu Shuaibu, adjourned the sitting to July 1st for pre-hearing on the petitions. The adjournment was effected as a result of an application by lawyers to the defendants. Speaking after the adjournment, the lawyers representing Governor Mohammed of the PDP and their counterparts who represents the opposition APC and its candidate, former governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, commended the tribunal for its commitment. PDP lead counsel, Chris Uche (SAN) asks the court to strike out the APC petition on the ground that its candidate and former governor had allegedly conceded defeat and congratulated Governor Bala Mohammed but later reversed his decision and filed a case with the tribunal. “If he had done that, he ought not to come to the tribunal with this petition. So that motion is something we are going to contend in the court in the next adjourned date,” he explained. On his part, the APC lead counsel, Mamman Mike Usman (SAN), said they expected the pre-hearing to hold today but was adjourned following the motion filed by the defendants. He however opined that the motion filed by the PDP lawyers was not done in the right manner as it was allegedly filed on Sunday 16th June around 6:30pm while they were served on Monday morning (June 17) which he said was a short notice. Election tribunal begins pre-hearing sitting in Bauchi tomorrow Election tribunal in a week Bauchi: Election tribunal treats five petitions at first sitting Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin