The National Think Tank Committee (NTTC) and National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Action Alliance (AA) has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the party’s account from 2017 to date. Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar, the party’s Acting National Chairman made the call while briefing newsmen on Monday in Abuja. He said the decision to investigate the account was taken after the indefinite suspension of the erstwhile National Chairman, Kenneth Udeze and National Secretary, James Vemimbe over their alleged undemocratic activities and misappropriation. “That the public is hereby notified that the duo of Bar. Kenneth Udeze and James Vemimbe no longer represent the party as National Chairman and National Secretary respectively. “Whoever accords them such prefix does so at his or her peril, the party’s Deputy National Secretary Mr Raphael Onokorere, assumes the office of National Secretary in acting capacity,” he said. Abubakar added that the decision was taken to prevent the party from going into extinction because of the greed of some few individuals. “We invite the EFCC, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and INEC to as a matter of urgency investigate the financial transactions of the party from 2017 to date. “Let the Federal Government corruption fight be extended to the party,” he said. He noted that having completed the electioneering processes, a political party such as the AA that actively participated in the elections, should do a stock taking to review its performance including revenue generated. This, he said, did not happen as the suspended national chairman and secretary allegedly ran the party unilaterally and threw caution to the wind. He recalled that about One Hundred Million Naira generated for the party from the sales of nomination and expression of interest forms as well as donations during the last general election, had not been accounted for. Abubakar added that every effort made to subject the party’s accounts to scrutiny was rebuffed by the suspended officials. He further recalled that prior to the 2019 general elections, the party had been struggling to exist until Chief Uche Nwosu alongside a host of other aspirants mainly from Imo, used its platform to run for elective offices. “Their entrance brought vibrancy and lifeline to the party, no doubt. “Today, the Action Alliance boasts of two members at the lower chamber of the National Assembly and eight members at the Imo State House of Assembly, thereby, making the party the fourth strongest party in the country. “This success story can be attributed to Chief Uche Nwosu’s electoral value,”he said. He stressed the support of the party’s NTTC and NEC for Nwosu, its gubernatorial candidate in lmo, including efforts to reclaim his mandate before the Election Tribunal. (NAN) Court reinstates Action Alliance exco, sacks national scribe 2019: Action Alliance adopts Atiku as presidential candidate Why PDP will hardly bounce back to power in 2019 - Chieftain Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin