The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has called on all Pilots and Airline Operators to exercise extreme caution during flight operations due to the commencement of the rainy season with the attendant thunderstorms. According to the NCAA, the rainy season which is torrential, is prevalent in the Southern and Northern parts of Nigeria and it is usually accompanied by severe thunderstorms which could impact the safety of flight operations. The General Manager, Public Relations of NCAA, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, in a statement on Thursday explained that there are many hazardous weather occurrences such as severe turbulence, microburst or low level wind-shear and occasionally hail events are bound to affect air navigation. The regulatory authority therefore directs all Pilots to recourse to utmost restraint whenever adverse weather is observed or forecast by Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET). Pilots and Flight Crews shall mandatorily obtain adequate, en route and destination weather information and briefing from NiMET Aerodrome Meteorological offices before flight operations. In the same vein, Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) and Flight Crews/Operators shall ensure total compliance with all aerodromes operating minima. It is quite important for all intending air travellers and airline operators to note that in line with Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs) Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) may temporarily close airspace during inclement weather conditions. These are adverse weather conditions such as severe thunderstorms, squall lines microburst or low level wind-shear as observed or forecast by NiMET. It will be recalled that a similar weather alert was issued by the Authority in March at the advent of the rainy season. It was circulated to the entire industry stating ahead of time what to expect and recommended precautionary measures to adhere to. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) expects strict adherence to this directive to ensure the safety of air transportation in Nigeria, Daily Trust reports. Flight disruptions loom as rainy season begins Flight disruptions imminent over harmatta--NCAA Airspace may be shut temporarily as rainy season commences Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin