The National Council of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) yesterday told President Muhammadu Buhari that the country’s economy is still fragile. Led by its president, Engr Mansur Ahmed, the association noted that despite the significant progress recorded in the last four years, “it is clear that our economy is still fragile.” “With the GDP at 2.0 per cent and below the population growth rate, the clouds are still threatening and the task of driving the economy upwards is still enormous. “But Your Excellency we are encouraged by the very strong commitment you expressed only last week in your Democracy Day address. “You did say that in your second term, your administration will do, even more, not only to continue to drive the economy on the path of sustained growth but indeed to create a more inclusive and sustainable economy,’’ he said. The MAN president, however, outlined credible policies that have driven the economy forward in the first term of Buhari. He recognized the government’s efforts at improving the Ease of Doing Business Project, fight against corruption, focus on poverty reduction, job creation and inclusive growth as well as the launch of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. Responding, Buhari said the country will be guided by “national interest” in taking any decision on the agreement establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). He said he is ready to receive the report of a Committee set up to assess the potential costs and impact of signing the agreement establishing the AfCFTA for Nigeria. He recalled that the Presidential Steering Committee on the AfCFTA Impact and Readiness Assessment Committee was inaugurated on October 22, 2018, with the mandate to assess the extent to which Nigeria was ready to join the agreement, and what the impact of doing so would be. The Committee was initially given 12 weeks to conclude its assignment, after holding wide consultations with industry groups and stakeholders, including the MAN. The President told National Council of MAN the AfCFTA is on the agenda for the upcoming AU Summit in Niamey, Niger Republic, in July. “I don’t think Nigeria has the capacity to effectively supervise and to ensure that our colleagues in AU don’t allow their countries to be used to dump goods on us to the detriment of our young industries and our capacity to utilize foreign exchange for imported goods,” he said. He also promised to look into the presentation by MAN highlighting issues of concern to the manufacturing sector, namely the AfCFTA, Export Expansion Grant and other incentives, challenges with the 2019 fiscal policy measures, recent increase in NAFDAC charges, the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) (Amendment) Act, 2019, among others. “I assure you that I know the enormity of our problems in terms of population growth rate and teeming young people. “We need to move very fast, and the government will try and encourage you as very much as possible so that the problem of unemployment and the provision of other services relative to our population and state of development can be tolerated,” he said. In an interview with reporters, Chairman of MAN in Kwara/Kogi chapter, Dr. Kamorudeen Ibitoye Yusuf said the ongoing KAM Integrated Steel located at Jimba-Oja, Kwara State when completed would activate Federal Government’s backward integration policy in Steel Industry. “It will no doubt enhance Foreign exchange savings of about $200 million annually thereby contributing immensely to the nation’s economy,” Yusuf who is the president of KAM Holdings Group Nigeria limited said. ‘Renewed fiscal, monetary policy needed’ An expert in microeconomic analysis, Mr. Abiola Rasaq, said the Nigerian economy requires concerted monetary and fiscal policy push to consolidate on the progress made in the past few quarters and avert undue slippage into recession. Mr. Rasaq said the first quarter 2019 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 2.0 per cent is the strongest first quarter growth since 2015 and highlights the improving output in some non-oil sector of the economy such as ICT and transport, which grew strongly in the period. However, the expert said trade and manufacturing sectors, which represent about a quarter of the Nigerian economy, remain relatively weak despite the improved availability of foreign currency. “This phenomenon reinforces the need to have renewed fiscal and monetary policy attention to these critical sectors, which have strong multiplier effect on other sectors of the economy,” he said. He said per capita income is shrinking and the government must give a “big push” to the economy to improve standard of living of the average Nigerian and achieve positive per capita income growth. The onetime Head of Research at UBA Capital Plc, Research Division, recommended that policy effort should be directed at encouraging banks to grow credit through a means that de-risk the sector, such as guarantees, forbearance, lower funding cost through CRR release and perhaps tax incentives. The expert believes that there is still hope for growth as the country expects stronger momentum in the quarters ahead to achieve our 2.4 per cent growth for the 2019 full year, as Q1 is often the slowest quarter for obvious seasonality effect. An associate professor of Economics, Dr Mohammed Yelwa, who corroborated the remark by MAN, said Nigeria has 43 economic sectors each capable of making the economy strong and buoyant on its own. “But none is actually contributing to GDP as it should even the agriculture as celebrated is not performing as it should. What is actually contributing to GDP is oil,” he said. He noted that before now, many sectors and people would lean on all sorts of leakages through corruption and before the presence of the Treasury Single Account, it was very easy for them. But with the invention of the TSA, it has become challenging for those leakages to take place. Dr Yelwa further said until there is an improvement in the productive capacity of all sectors in the economy, the economic fragility will persist. He also said that temporary measures must be put in place when stopping the importation of essential commodities. “We cannot stop the importation of essential commodities without temporary measures to provide these commodities. The local producers must be trained on the technical know-how, they cannot just begin to produce in large scale with just basic knowledge” he said. Also, a Yobe based Economist, Prof Binta Yahaya, said priority has been given to diversification especially entrepreneurship and Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) even though some might argue the diversification is more prominent in the media, but it has seen the rise and growth of many businesses in Nigeria. She noted that in the manufacturing sector, if power generation is not improved, there is going to be a decline in the growth of that sector. She noted that the manufacturing sector would have to rely on alternative source of power which will make their production very expensive. Manufacturers association to Buhari: Our economy still fragile The economy still helpless 2016 budget: How not to borrow Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin