Mr. Mele Kolo Kyari, who was named the new Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), will assumed office from July 7 when the current holder of the post, Dr. Maikanki Baru retires. He was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari along with seven new Chief Operating Officers. They COOs will replace seven group executive directors who will retire along with Dr. Baru. NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, announced the appointments in a statement yesterday in Abuja. Kyari, a geologist, was Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division of NNPC. He is also Nigeria’s National Representative to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC since May 13, 2018. According to the statement, President Buhari has directed that the new GMD and the newly appointed Chief Operating Officers should work with the current occupiers of the various offices till July 7, 2019 when their tenure would expire. It said this was to ensure a smooth transition on July 8 when their appointments would take effect. However, the appointment of Mr. Farouk Garba Said (North West), who is replacing a retiring Chief Operating Officer, is effective from 28th June, 2019, the statement noted. The newly appointed Chief Operating Officers are: Mr. Roland Onoriode Ewubare (South-South) – Chief Operating Officer, Upstream; Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu (North Central) – Chief Operating Officer, Refining and Petrochemicals; Engr. Yusuf Usman (North East) – Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power; Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu (South East), Chief Operating Officer, Ventures; Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya (North West) – Chief Financial Officer; Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji (South West) – Chief Operating Officer, Downstream and Mr. Farouk Garba Said (North West) – Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services. Ughamadu added that the NNPC Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, had congratulated the new appointees. He described Mallam Kyari “ a quintessential crude oil marketer with prerequisite certification and outfield pedigree in Petroleum Economics and crude oil and gas trading. “In the last 27 years, he had traversed the entire value chain of the Petroleum Industry, with exceptional records of performance. “Under his watch, the Crude Oil Marketing Division has recorded noticeable transformation in the management and sales of the various Nigeria’s crude oil grades via an infusion of transparency and automation of the processes,” the statement added. Kyari would be the 19th Group Managing.  Buhari appoints Mele Kyari as new NNPC GMD, seven COOs UPDATE: Baru remains NNPC GMD till July 7 19 things you need to know about new NNPC GMD, Kyari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin