Daily Trust: How many Nigerians would you say are living in Ghana? HE Rashid Bawa: Conservatively, we think there are about seven million Nigerians in Ghana. And we also think there are about 1.92 million Ghanaians in Nigeria. When we talk of seven million Nigerians in Ghana, they’re in different categories: the top, the middle, and the lower classes. There are the big companies and banks doing big business too. The same goes for Nigeria. There are many Ghanaians of different categories, as well. There are a lot of Ghanaians who move from the coastal belt, introducing new modes of fishing here in Nigeria. When you go to the streets of Lagos, those selling ‘puff-puff’ and bread on the streets are there too. Between Ghana and Nigeria, we have quite a number of them across different sectors in both our countries. DT: It would be an understatement to say that the relationship between Nigerians in Ghana and Ghanaians themselves, is strained. What’s your view on this? Bawa: I don’t think it is strained. I think that the relations between the government of Ghana and the government of Nigeria has been at an excellent level. The two presidents are very close. In fact, only 10 days ago, our president flew here on Sallah day, to spend the whole day with the president here, to congratulate him personally on his election victory, and also the successful completion of the Ramadan fast. So, between the two presidents and the two governments, it has been very excellent in terms of relationship. Between the people as well, it has never been better. I have one way of looking at this: it’s only when you have a good friend that sometimes he hurts you. If you’re not my friend, anything you do doesn’t really bother me. I’ve travelled across the geopolitical zones in Nigeria, to meet all Ghanaian communities. There’s one thing I’ve been telling them – in whatever corner you find yourself, you are our ambassador there. You are the one representing the country and you must always lead by a very good example. From Maiduguri, down to Port Harcourt, you’ll find Ghanaians there, and they are living testimonies of the excellent relations between the countries. So, there’s a good working relationship between Nigerians in Ghana, and Ghanaians in Nigeria. I don’t think it has at ever been strained at any point. There are bad nuts, let’s admit it. Only three months ago, three Ghanaians came to Nigeria, forged documentation here, and they were arrested. We got them deported back to Ghana. These are normal things that happen between the two countries. I believe that within the spirit of the ECOWAS protocol, we must be able to deal with these issues. To answer your question, the relationship between the two is excellent, despite some hiccups. DT: But what about the incident a few months ago, where Ghana deported 723 Nigerians? Even Nigerian traders were banned from trading. What happened? Bawa: It was a misunderstanding. There was no time where 723 Nigerians were deported from Ghana. It was a cumulative figure within a year, of Nigerians who were deported. The statistics show that there were some challenges in terms of cross-border crime. The foremost of them is cybercrime. We had a meeting with the EFCC chairman just two weeks ago, at the Anti-Corruption Summit. We realized that there has been a strong clampdown of cybercrime in Nigeria, so the fallout of that clampdown here is for the criminals to look for a place where the culture and language is similar to Nigeria’s. Nigeria is surrounded by francophone countries. The only place that is nearer, and with a similar culture, is Ghana. So we saw an upsurge in cybercrime activities in Ghana to the extent that the EU and America became alarmed. The 723 that you’re talking about, 570 of them were involved in cybercrime. There were two issues confronting the Ghanaian government in respect of this: to arrest, prosecute and convict them, or because of good relationship, take them back to Nigeria instead to put them through due process. When the data was analyzed, it was realised that they come from a particular zone here in Nigeria. They come in, rent a big house, and then fill it with computers. The young boys stay there 24/7 doing their thing. What came up from last year was that it looked like a cartel was behind these activities, as the boys can’t buy the computers and can’t rent the houses. The idea was to look out for the cartel, because if it is found, the boys will not be able to come down to Ghana and engage in such again. The number is over the span of one year, and 90 per cent of them were involved in cybercrime. The issue now which we’re discussing bilaterally is whether once we arrest them in Ghana committing a crime, we should prosecute them when the government gives us the go-ahead, convict them in Ghana, or give them a docket of whatever crime they have committed, and hand them over to the relevant security agencies to take appropriate action. But it is a big problem. The other categories of persons are prostitutes. Prostitution has been there for a long time, but it was detected that the young girls were brought into Ghana by a cartel. So, it’s not the young girls that are being targeted, but rather the cartels, which is what we’re trying to deal with. DT: (Cuts in) How about the issue of the traders that were banned at a certain point, and shops owned by Nigerian traders that were shut down? Bawa: That’s another issue all together. Anxiety was created by the misinterpretation of our laws and the ECOWAS protocol. I personally got involved in it. You recall when the Ghanaian president and that of Nigeria issued a joint statement in New York while they were there for a convention? I was in Ghana myself and I engaged the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of National Security. I went down to Kumasi to meet the Nigerian traders, as well as the Ghanaians. What came out is that yes, we have the free movement of persons and goods under the ECOWAS treaty. You can settle down and even establish your business. But when you move and settle, there are laws you have to fulfill. For example, if I move into Nigeria, I have 90 days. If I want to establish a business, what do I do? Do I just go to Gwarimpa, pick a shop and start selling? Whether it’s a corporate, or limited liability company or sole proprietorship, I have to go and register, pick up a form and then rent a shop. Ninety-nine percent of the traders in Kumasi had not registered their companies. Then I said we can’t stop them from doing business in Ghana. But what we can do, the Ghanaian Ministry of Trade, is pick up the forms, help them fill the forms and establish the companies so they can do their business. The integration and movement we want to have in the south region involves the establishment of businesses across borders so we can’t stop them. We are a major founding nation of the ECOWAS protocol. Ghana and Nigeria are the pillars. If our pillar begins to shake, it’s going to affect the whole ECOWAS protocol. And let’s not forget, the AU is using ECOWAS as a basis for continental free trade. It was clearly resolved, the shops were opened, and they continued doing the business without any problems. There hadn’t been any problem until three days ago when the shops were again closed down, and that again was a reaction to what has happened in the country, as reflected by the media. In December last year, we recorded our first kidnapping in the history of Ghana, when two young Ghanaians were kidnapped in the western part of the country. Two people were arrested, and they were Nigerians. They indicated that yes, they took the girls to Nigeria, Onitsha to be precise, and sold them to a ‘baby factory’. As we speak, security agencies of both countries are working to unravel it, and rescue the girls. This has become a national security issue in Ghana. There are many more, and the reportage of the media skews it a certain negative way. They should have been dealt with as individuals, since the Nigerian government wouldn’t send a Nigerian to kidnap anyone in Ghana, and the same goes for Ghana. The media should have focused on the few Nigerians who were arrested, instead of creating the impression that Nigeria as a country was on trial in Ghana. DT: (Cuts in) Which you could say appears like xenophobia… Bawa: Xenophobia is when you attack. No one was attacked. There was another kidnap, only five days ago, of a two-year-old Ghanaian. The culprit was also apprehended and prosecuted. When the reportage came out, and mentioned Nigerians, some Ghanaians took the law into their hands and went after the shops of those in Kumasi. Kumasi is a very homogeneous society, so the president got a wind of it and ordered the security agencies to move in quickly and made arrests, and ordered shops reopened, then placed 24/7 security to ensure that no Nigerians were disturbed in the performance of their day-to-day businesses. That’s why I said it was never an instance of Ghanaians attacking Nigerians. As we speak, the Ghanaians feel the security agencies are more protective of the Nigerians in Ghana than them. A good thing is that both political parties in parliament, opposition and ruling, issued a joint statement urging the media to be very careful in their reportage so as not to tarnish the good relations between Ghana and Nigeria. Once this message begins to go across, that the political divide has come together, they will be more wary of what they disseminate since the media is private and can’t be told what to publish or not. When an individual commits a crime, label the individual and not the nation. DT: On a lighter note, between the Nigeria and Ghana, who has the best jollof rice? Bawa: Without a doubt, there are three countries in contest: Senegal, Nigeria, and Ghana. The number one is Ghana, number two is Senegal, and then Nigeria is third (laughter).  Nigeria-Ghana relations beyond diplomacy –Onafowokan Ghana – Some hope next door As Nigeria falls, Ghana rises! Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin