The Vice Chancellor of Lagos State University (LASU), Professor  Olanrewaju Fagbohun, has approved the indefinite suspension of Oloyede Ibrahim Akanbi, a 400 level student of the Department of Industrial Relations and Personnel Management, and Olutade Tobiloba, a 400 level Student of Department of Accounting, Faculty of management Sciences over cult related activities. Professor Fagbohun also approved the indefinite suspension of Ogunbowale Afeez, of the Department of Chemistry Education with Matriculation Number: 160112046, over an alleged case of rape. Ogunbowale was reported to have carried out the act on April 18, 2018; apprehended on September 13, 2018, and subsequently transferred to the Festac Police Station, since it was a criminal offense. “The Students’ Affairs Division of the University also received information on a fracas that happened on Thursday, June 20th, 2019, on the campus, involving some students and non-students. Our preliminary investigation revealed that the fracas which started at the Faculty of Management Sciences, was between two cult groups.With the prompt reaction of the Security Department, those who were involved ran out of the campus and some of them were eventually apprehended and later handed over to the Police,” the VC said. He noted that the outcome of the investigation revealed that, two LASU students were involved in the fracas. Fagbohun however, said it is not unaware of pressure being put on the leadership of the Students’ Union and Faculty Associations by students who would want the Students’ Union and Association platforms to be used to shield offenders and perpetrators of criminality from justice. He therefore stated that the university will not condone harassment and blackmail of students’ leaders by unscrupulous elements, while he encouraged the union leaders to always pursue legitimate means in championing the interest of the students.  Why we withdrew the PhDs we awarded LASU-ASUU Chairman,  18 others – VC 3 UNICAL students suspended over robbery, cultism Aftermath of  LASU closure: students vacate campus Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin