Some fun seekers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have described the 2019 Eid celebrations as ‘less fun’ compared to 2018. The respondents, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at Novare Gateway Mall, said the city felt emptier this year as there were fewer events to attend. Although families were gathered at the mall to watch movies and shop, the vibe was a little quieter than most holidays. Respondents attribute the situation to the holidays falling in the middle of the week and the cluster of public holidays the week before. NAN reports that in 2018, the Eid celebrations coincided with Father’s Day and were held on a weekend stretch. Some parents told NAN that they had taken their children out on May 27 (Children’s Day) and enjoyed a lavish holiday on May 29. Mrs Maryam Bilau said, “We have had too many holidays and we have one more so people are trying to be careful with money. “The last few weeks have been really celebratory. But Eid is special and should be celebrated more. This year, it seems people are trying to be more low-key,” she said. Mr Joshua Ayamkpa told NAN that he brought his family to enjoy the holiday as they did not have the chance during Children’s Day. He also noted that the festivities were at the lowest ebb. Meanwhile, other respondents said it was important to mark the end of the fasting with a celebration although they have to celebrate moderately this year. (NAN) Mrs Aisha Mahmoud said, “We are really happy for the Sallah celebrations. No, this is not the one where we kill ram but it signals the end of Ramadan. Also, Mr Ibrahim Kaigama told NAN that some people decided to stay at home, cook and eat with their families. “Also, the economic situation is tougher than last year so people are trying to be wise with finances, especially with the numerous public holidays,” he said. (NAN) Christmas: Abuja residents seek fun at recreational Parks Eid-el-fitr: Abuja airport witnesses upsurge in passengers Eid-el-Fitr: Abuja residents throng fun places Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin