The Director-General, (DG), Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Umaru Radda, has decried the attitude of Nigeria MSMEs toward taking advantage of export windows due to poor quality of Nigerian products. Dr. Radda was speaking at the knowledge sharing session under the agency’s Enterprise Network Initiative (ENI), programme held in Aba, Abia State. The DG was represented by the Director, Policy Partnership and Coordinaton, Dr. Friday Okpara. In a statement by Ibrahim Mohammed, Head, Corporate Affairs Unit, SMEDAN, it quoted the DG as saying ECOWAS, Asian, European and American markets as well as other African countries as yearning for Nigeria products. The Director-General noted that the quality of Nigerian products should be enhanced and the ease of doing business improved. Dr. Radda added that Nigeria MSMEs should explore the huge markets with its unique products and that the standards and specifications should be enhanced and improved. He also said labeling and packaging should meet international standards, “we should critically overhaul our strategy structure and system to be export ready ‘he said. Dr. Radda explained that ENI is based on a unique organizational model for the Nigeria sector, adding the initiative was apt given the present realities of the nation’s economy which was in dire need of enhanced capacity to push her global competitiveness and inclusive growth. The SMEDAN boss commended the federal government for the relentless effort in organizing MSME clinics in almost all states of the federation so as to ensure a friendly business environment and to improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria. Iran seeks cooperation with SMEDAN on SMEs development 26 Nigerian MSMEs showcase 40 products at China fair 21 Nigerian SMEs in China Fair Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin