Sixty presidential candidates in the February 23 election have asked the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar and his party to stop “heating up the polity” over INEC server. Atiku and PDP are in court challenging the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC as winner of the election, insisting that a result purportedly obtained from the INEC server showed that the opposition party won the poll. But addressing a press conference, yesterday, in Abuja, chairman of Forum of Presidential Candidates for the 2019 election, Mohammed Shittu, who was flanked by many members of the forum as well as chairmen of various political parties said the server controversy was unnecessary. Shittu, who passed a vote of confidence on INEC and its chairman, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, over the conduct of the 2019 elections also argued that the server controversy was a deliberate ploy to discredit and destroy the integrity of Nigeria’s electoral process. Shittu said since the Electoral Act Amendment Bill was not assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari, there was no provision for electronic transmission of results in the electoral act that guided the conduct of the last general elections. The Chairman of APDA also said INEC had told presidential candidates that it would not be possible to transmit results electronically following the withholding of assent by the president. He said: “In the buildup to the elections, we as presidential candidates and our political parties held several meetings with INEC. The delay in finalizing the electoral legal framework and the eventual withholding of assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill deprived the nation of the much-needed reform of our electoral process which must be anchored on the rule of law. “Can the so-called result from the server be referred to as credible where INEC could not have legitimately transmitted results of the presidential or any of the other elections electronically?” he asked. “It is worrisome that only one political party out of the 91 parties that fielded presidential candidates is saying a different thing in the presidential election; while at the same time praising its performance on the other elections, especially governorship polls conducted by the same INEC,” he said.  Stop 'heating up' polity, ex-presidential candidates tell Atiku, PDP 2019 Election: INEC server controversy unnecessary — Forum of Presidential Candidates 2019: Cracks in presidential candidates' alliance over Buhari’s adoption Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin