Kano State Government should strictly follow due process in the handling of its case against the Emir of Kano Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II,  former Secretary to the Government of the Federation Alhaji Yayale Ahmed said last night. The former SGF, former Head of Service and former Defence Minister told Daily Trust on telephone that even if the Emir is a card-carrying member of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party [PDP], Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje should see himself as the leader for all Kano State residents and not just those who voted for him. Alhaji Yayale Ahmed, who is the Ajiyan Katagum, warned that if the Kano State government proceeds the way it is doing now, there could be consequences for the government, the traditional institution and the entire Northern establishment. Alhaji Yayale also said traditional institutions should not be subjected to unnecessary intimidation as there are security implications. Anything that can trigger a security concern should worry the Kano State government as the city and state are home to many Nigerians who came to Kano to earn their livelihood, he said. Yayale said he believes that Nigeria still needs traditional rulers and they should therefore be protected and accorded respect even if we need a referendum should be held to determine that. It will be recalled that Kano State Government issued a query to the emir last week, asking him to explain why N3.4 billion was allegedly misappropriated by the Emirate Council under Sanusi’s watch. The council was given 48 hours to respond. It sent in a response on Saturday, saying there was no N3.4 bn to misappropriate because Sanusi II inherited N1.8bn when he became the emir in 2014. There were reports at the weekend that business mogul Aliko Dangote and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum Dr. Kayode Fayemi brokered peace between the two warring parties. Though Governor Ganduje’s spokesman confirmed that a meeting took place, he later said no settlement was reached. 5 years after Ado Bayero: So many changes in Kano Emirate Sanusi receives staff of office, traditional regalia Emir Sanusi II visits Sultan, Gwandu Emir Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin