The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has dissolved all transport unions and named a 13-man committee to coordinate their activities in the state. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin said the interim road transport unions’ committee will be headed by Barrister Sunday Olufemi Adeniyi. According to the statement, the mandate of the Road Transport Associations’ Interim committee is basically to review the operations of the unions and make recommendations on how the unions could be better organised to support the developmental agenda of the state. The interim Committee is also “expected to educate and create awareness amongst the stakeholders in the sector on the need to ensure peaceful conduct at all times and avoid any activities that could undermine peace, security and safety of life and property in the state.” The other terms of reference for the transport committee are “to institute disciplinary procedures/actions against any conduct or behaviour that could undermine public peace and harness the revenue potential of the road transport for enhanced internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and identification and addressing of any issue(s) that may improve the overall performance of the transport sector in the State.” Abiodun urged the committee to make recommendations for consideration of the Government on the way forward for these unions, adding that all road transport associations’ stand dissolved immediately. The Governor equally constituted an ad-hoc Committee to coordinate the 2019 Hajj operations for the State Muslims faithful performing this year’s pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina in the absence of a substantive Muslim Welfare Board. The Hajj Operation Committee will be chaired by Imam Mufutau Majekodunmi. Other members of the Hajj committee are the Publicity Secretary of the State’s APC Caretaker Committee, Alhaji Tunde Oladunjoye; Alhaji Abdul Gafar Orunsolu; Imam Rufai Sile; Alhaji Misbau Salako and Alhaji Tijani Hassan Ishola. The other members of the committee are Dr (Mrs) Raheemat Oloyede; Hon. Kamaru Oduntan and Alhaja Bisola Aliu. Ogun Assembly wants Police stem cultists’ clash, land grabbing Ogun APC slams Amosun, says he deserves sympathy APC crisis: Counter protests in Ogun over Akinlade, Abiodun's candidature Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin