President Muhammadu Buhari is yet to hit the ground running, 96 hours after he was sworn in for a second term, creating anxiety in the country. Buhari jetted out of the country to Saudi Arabia less than 24 hours after the oath of office was administered on him by the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, at the Eagle Square, Abuja, marking the beginning of his second term. The president is expected to return back to the country after attending the 14th session of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Having spent five days into the new term of four years without making any appointment or announcing any new policy, just as he failed to deliver inaugural speech before departing the venue of the inauguration, Nigerians are already worried about a possible repeat of slow pace of governance that characterised the early stage of Buhari’s first term, which saw him appoint ministers after six months in office. The expectations of many were dashed when the president left the venue of the inauguration without delivering an inaugural speech to lead Nigerians into the Next Level he promised them. Many expected him to make policy statement to give direction on his second term. During his swearing in ceremony for a first term on Friday, May 29, 2015, he pledged to do all he could to rescue the Chibok girls being held captive by Boko Haram. Also, it was at the ceremony that he relocated the nation’s military command to Maiduguri to confront the insurgents. He also promised not to go after his opponents. An explanation that the inaugural speech would be delivered on Wednesday, June 12, the country’s new Democracy Day by the Presidency hasn’t addressed the concern being expressed. The last outing of the president at the Presidential Villa was at the mosque, where he performed the Asr daily prayers and listened for Ramadan Tafsir (lecture) together with his nephew, Alhaji Mamman Daura, on Wednesday. The president was absent at the inaugural dinner held at the State House Conference Centre. No explanation was given, even when he was to deliver a speech, according to the programme of event. Since he was sworn in, the president has not been able to make any public statement in the country, thus leaving Nigerians guessing. Unlike Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had twice made public statements. First, it was at the inaugural dinner, where he assured that they would defend the trust Nigerians reposed in them. He also spoke when he hosted the 83-year-old Plateau Imam Abdullahi Abubakar who saved 300 Christians during a crisis in Jos last year. It was observed that among the early callers at the State House on Wednesday after the inauguration was the acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu. Boss Mustapha, Kyari others still in office Without the announcement of their reappointments, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, among other aides of the president, have continued to man their respective offices, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered. It is the same scenario at the office of the vice president. All his aides are still in office. In fact, his media aide, Laolu Akande, on Thursday night issued a statement on his behalf. Even though the appointments of aides do not require lawmakers’ confirmation, presidents and governors publicly announce the reappointment of their top aides immediately after taking oath for another term. How Obasanjo reappointed Yayale, others It would be recalled that four days after his swearing in for a second term in 2003, former President Olusegun Obasanjo reappointed three of his closest aides to their old posts. The appointments were made public via a presidential statement. Alhaji Mahmud Yayale Ahmed was asked to continue as head of service while Chief Uffot Ekaette was retained  as Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Major-General Abdullahi Mohammed (retd) continued to serve as Chief of Staff (COS) in the Presidential Villa. Sources said it was after the reappointment that the three aides resumed duties in their respective offices. President Buhari was silent on his aides during the valedictory Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting which held exactly a week before his new term. He only directed ministers to hand over to permanent secretaries and submit handover notes to the SGF. Second term governors have since announced the reappointments of their aides. Top in this category was the Kano State governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umaru Ganduje, who has since announced the reappointment of the Secretary to the Kano State Government, Usman Alhaji. It was observed that on Thursday, 24 hours after the president was sworn in, his close aides resumed. The SGF was seen engaging in official duties. He was said to have resumed as usual, arriving before 8 am. Also, Chief of Staff Abba Kyari was seen in his office at the Presidential Villa on Thursday. Similarly, presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, issued a statement on Wednesday. In his first tenure, it took the president three months to appoint the SGF, CoS and others on August 27, 2015. Buhari’s first appointment in 2015 was made on May 31, with Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu named as special adviser, media and publicity and senior special assistant on media and publicity respectively.  Give Buhari benefit of the doubt – Balarabe Musa But a former governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Abdulkadir Balarabe Musa, has urged Nigerians to give the president the benefit of doubt. In an interview, he told one of our correspondents that “at the moment, we are not happy, but let us wait and see. “I am not surprised, but I am not happy either. As I said, this is a difficult time, so let us give him a benefit of doubt. If after June 12 when he is expected to address the nation and he doesn’t give the speech we expected on May 29, then there would be a problem. But in the meantime, let just give him a benefit of doubt,” he said. Asked to advise the president on how to go about his second term, the octogenarian said, “No, because they have already given him their advise.” Buhari was misadvised – Rafsanjani The executive director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, has said that whoever advised Buhari not to make inaugural speech or not to make any policy statement, at least to re-emphasize his policy direction, did not advise him well. He told Daily Trust on Sunday that President Buhari should have spoken to Nigerians during his inauguration. According to him, if the inaugural speech is not important, the swearing-in should also not have been important. “The essence of inaugural speech is to build lots of confidence in the people that supported Mr. President. For him not to do this did not sound good. Lots of people think he did not show commitment and others think he did not show appreciation to the people who worked very hard for his success. He should have addressed Nigerians during his inauguration to show his policy direction. “There are some key expectations which Mr. President is expected to address, or at least re-emphasize on his administration. But to do the swearing-in and just go, I think it is not a good development. Mr. President should know that even in advanced countries where you have powerful leaders like the United States, this is not happening,” Rafsanjani said. He said it is not enough for him to grant an interview on television as it is a different thing altogether. He said, “This is your swearing-in for a second term. You had campaigned on certain issues, so you need to re-confirm the direction you are facing. It is important that leaders subject themselves to public accountability. You shouldn’t refuse to speak to Nigerians because you use the inaugural ceremony to either announce fresh policy direction or express policy reversal, or re-confirm the policy you have. “If we can have the inaugural ceremony, it is equally important to have the inaugural speech. This means that no one can hold Mr. President accountable for his actions.” Buhari knows his target – Bako Also speaking, a political strategy consultant, Dr. Abbati Bako, said politics was a game of timing, and timing is very important whenever a leader wants to make a policy statement. He said: “The statement is an intended or unintended policy. Timing is very important because policy statement by a leader is a law binding on him; hence, the declining of President Muhammad Buhari to make a policy statement or usual inaugural speech on May 29, 2019 must be connected with the coming of June 12 political brouhaha that was signed into law some weeks ago. Expectedly, the president will invite some global leaders to honour the June 12 political saga, of which he will be expected to make policy statement, especially on strategic issues such as political restructuring, constitutional amendments and possibility of putting true federalism into practice in Nigeria’s democracy. “Other important issues expected from the president’s June 12 inaugural speech should be his achievements recorded between 2015 and 2019, such as corruption fight, tackling insecurity and tackling nation’s economic aridity, recession and generally stagflation. “Again, President Buhari is expected to tell the nation in his June 12 policy statement his strategic plans in the next four years for the nation. I view that the president is now rich with experience in the past four years on how to play positively in democratic politics, the role of political party, political appointees, National Assembly members and the reactions of Nigerians to certain policies that affected them directly or indirectly. “Conclusively, the president is expected to perform more than the past 1,460 days, that is 2015 to 2019 because, to who much is given, much is also expected.” Lawyers react According to Hameed Ajibola Jimoh, a lawyer, considering the provision of Section 151(3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), those aides as special advisers to the president are appointed at the pleasure of the president and shall cease when the president ceases to hold office. “So, they might have continued to hold their respective offices at the pleasure of the president. Also, since the president has been elected and inaugurated for a second term of office and he did not relieve them of their official duties, it shows that he is still pleased with them; hence they are automatically maintaining their respective offices. That is automatic reappointment. More so, the appointment of a special adviser by the president is only made by at his discretion and pleasure without the confirmation, approval or recommendation of any other person. “The non-presentation of inaugural address by the president does not have any legal implication. No law mandates him to make such address. I view that the address is either as a tradition or convention for a president to do so. Nevertheless, the reason for refusing to make such address is best known to the president. The truth is that he has not committed any illegality by law for not delivering the address. I also do not view the address as a moral obligation, though courtesy might have demanded him to at least address his people who have made great efforts to elect or vote for him for a second term.” Also speaking, E.M.D Umukoro said there was no legal basis for it, adding that is a conventional practice, which refusal has no legal implications since the law is concerned with the oath taking or swearing-in. “Though the moral side of it raises questions for the government to address, the inaugural speech of any chief executive is part of the conventional practices that have gained popularity over the years. It is often used by oath takers to reach out to their people, inspire, motivate, challenge, point out, give directions, etc. “The people use the speech to x-ray the administration, feel the pulse of the government or leader, gauge the government and get a glimpse of the direction the government is headed.” Buhari’s inauguration: Another missed opportunity High expectations as Buhari begins 2nd term Much Ado about Buhari’s speech and the Rodents’ invasion Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin