Three main socio-cultural organisations of the people of Benue State have vowed to resist the Federal Government’s attempt to construct a settlement known as ‘Ruga’ for Fulani herders in three Local Government Areas of the state. A press statement by the leaders of the three ethnic bodies (groups) made up of Mdzough U Tiv’s President-General, Engr Edward Ujege, President General of Ochetoha K’Idoma, Barr Amali Adoya Amali and Ominy’Igede’s President-General, Comrade Ben Okpa, accused the federal government of an attempt to deprive the indigenes of their land which is their main source of livelihood. “That the people of Benue state will resist the construction of Ruga settlements even if it means extermination of our race. We are in no doubt that General Muhammadu Buhari as a person hates Benue state indigenes to a fault. “Since the coming into rulership federal government has not undertaken any major project in Benue state apart from trying to grab our land for construction of Ruga settlements which may be a proposal of the Miyetti Allah. Let it be known that the common man in Benue state will use all constitutional means to resist the illegal occupation of our land,” the statement reads in part. The group therefore called on all Benue state indigenes at home and in diaspora to rise up to the occasion while at the same time, inviting the international community, well-meaning friends, all socio-cultural associations such as Afenefere, Ohaneze Ndi Igbo, Middle Belt Forum, South south Forum, the United nations all who value human lives to common to their assistance. The federal government through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture had marked three areas in the state to include; Tarka, Ukum and Otukpo LGAs respectively with a signpost already bearing inscription of the project for commencement of construction works mounted along Otobi road in Otukpo. No to Fulani settlement’s creation, Benue tells FG Why Violence Persists in Benue Root and remedies of the Benue crisis Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin