Counsel to Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in Ogun State, Sebastine Hon (SAN), and its gubernatorial candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, yesterday, told the election petitions tribunal sitting in Abeokuta that Akinlade and the petitioner’s witnesses are facing threat to their lives. Hon who appeared with Ahmed Raji (SAN) before the Justice Yusuf Halilu panel, specifically said the police officers attached to Akinlade had been withdrawn, thereby exposing him to danger. The counsel shortly after he had called the third witness for hearing, expressed concern that the petitioner might not continue with the hearing over alleged threat to the witnesses’ lives. Daily Trust reports that out of about 100 witnesses lined up for the petition, 28 had been called and cross examined before the tribunal. Hon demanded for an adjournment to enable the petitioner re-examine the security situation before continuation of the hearing. “This is my 11th year as SAN, I can’t be frivolous. I am a dogged fighter and I don’t shy away from my responsibility. I am speaking with high sense of responsibility. And I am communicating the position of the petitioner. “Police security officers of the first petitioner ( Akinlade) have been withdrawn. Those who are threatening their lives won’t come to court. This application is brought in all sincerity,” Hon said. But Counsel to Governor Dapo Abiodun who is the second respondent, Dele Adesina (SAN), opposed the petitioner’s application, describing it as unacceptable Adesina described Abiodun as a “dove and a peace-lover who would not threaten anybody’s life over the petition.” Also speaking, counsel to APC Habeeb Ajayi described the application as an excuse taken too far, saying “our client has not threatened anyone and does not intend to threaten anyone’s life.” Ogun: Akinlade hires Adeleke’s lawyer as battle shifts to tribunal Ogun guber poll: Akinlade hires Adeleke's lawyer, as battle shifts to tribunal Ekiti decides: Witnesses allege irregularities in governorship election Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin