Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed is the newly elected Governor of Bauchi State. He won on the platform of PDP defeating ex-Governor Mohammed Abubakar who was looking for second term from APC. In this interview, he speaks on the challenges he met on assuming office and his plans for the state. Excerpts:  What is your first reaction when you were announced as the elected governor of Bauchi State? My first reaction when I was finally declared the winner of the 2019 gubernatorial elections in Bauchi was a total sense of humility and submission to the will of God. It reaffirmed my belief that it is God that gives power, and it is he that takes power and he has given me this as a test and I have a very big burden because I have gone through the turbulences of persecutions, prosecutions and mudslinging of my name and of course vilification. All these things did not contribute to the loss of the election. This is to show you that God is great. It is obvious that the expectations of the people of Bauchi State are high. How will you meet them? Like I said, I am very grateful to the people of Bauchi State for electing me. I know they did that with a very high sense of expectations and of course I cannot afford to fail them because they have rejected a governor who was elected four years ago. My election cuts across tribal, religious and even party lines. So, I have a burden of carrying everybody along. First, the people that voted for me. My duty is to unify Bauchi and make sure that labour has respect and wages and salaries are promptly paid because the whole state is a labour camp. There are no companies, there are no industries. Everybody is a worker and we must make sure that we work hard to see that we have a cash flow that will respect the contributions of workers, labourers and everybody in the service and outside. So, and with the hindsight of the knowledge of almost N26 billion backlog of pensions and gratuities. With the hindsight of the fact that we borrow N3 billion to pay salaries because our personnel emoluments have risen  from N2.5 billion in a month to over N5 billion while we get an average of about N6 billion from the federation account, it is an arduous task. We must do more differently to make sure that we pay salaries and of course provide dividends of democracy in terms of roads, hospitals, schools and other things. It’s a mixed feeling, we have the government and we know that we have a big task ahead. Your supporters were perceived to be violent, what will you say about the celebrations and the euphoria that greeted your victory up to the time you were inaugurated as governor? To me, my supporters have shown that against all odds, against lies and chicaneries that they are the Sara-Suka, they are not. Their celebrations of our victory did not degenerate into violence. Nobody was killed, nobody was maimed. So, the celebrations on May 29 had been orderly. A lot of people came not necessarily invited but because they have elected a government that they want. The security agencies have done a very good job with the task of controlling the crowd. The crowd was there because they know that what they want has crystallised and came to fruition when I was inaugurated as the governor of Bauchi State. My supporters have been orderly; they respect each other and have known that it is not a time to raise issues with anybody, but a time to show happiness. The pattern of election in Bauchi was very surprising to many because candidates from various political platforms won seats. What do you think is responsible for this? It is just political maturity to vote for a candidate rather than the political platform. What happened in Bauchi is unique because the people voted for their preferred candidates. Like we have seen, in the presidential election, the people voted for President Muhammadu Buhari, they voted for me in the governorship election and voted for other parties at various stages. They voted for PRP in Bauchi Federal Constituency and voted for the NNPP candidate for Bauchi Constituency in the state House of Assembly to replace the seats that were won by the APC in 2015. So, the people have a way of disposing non-performers. I am sure they can dispose me through their votes like they did to M.A. Abubakar if I didn’t perform. I have to be very grateful to what Bauchi people did to me. They elected me a senator against a former governor and now they elected me to defeat the incumbent who has not performed. I did not contest for the governorship to build a house or buy a car. I come out in order to work for the people of Bauchi State. I came with a clean heart and I will not disappoint them Insha Allah. Because I know, if I disappoint them, I will have to face them in 2023 and they will vent their anger through their votes. That is for sure. Now that you are the governor, what will be the focus of your administration considering the enormous challenges facing the state? We have already swung into action. Since we decided to go into the race, we have already had our plans and we hit the ground running. We will not be bogged down by the challenges we are facing. We already knew what needs to be done; good governance will be established. We are going to have a popular government, a unity government, a government of the people irrespective of their beliefs or political inclinations, because even the APC people voted for me. Of course, my PDP people would be the main beneficiaries of this government. We are going to have an open administration and we are not going to pursue people because they did not vote for us or they have done something during the whole process. No. We respect the traditional institutions, respect other parties and we will come with a well articulate roadmap of what we are going to do. How to manage our cashflow, how to give dividends of democracy, pay salaries and repair our dilapidated schools. We are the only state in the federation with 1.3 million out of school children. Most of the schools were blown up and we will surely do something about it. And of course, as I have said, we have a plan and we have established a good economic management team headed by Professor Usman Bugaje of the Northern Research Group and they are going to work hand in hand with other Nigerians from Bauchi to guide them on what to do. So, our administration’s activities are going to be knowledge… I don’t want to pre-empt. I don’t want to contemplate. I just want to see what is on the ground and from the information we have gotten so far from our transition committee, definitely it is not going to be very easy. It is going to be an uphill task, but we are up to the task, we know what to do in terms of governance. We want to make sure that the public service or the civil service is re-positioned in such a manner that it will discharge its responsibilities of providing services to the people of Bauchi State. There are so many expectations on the part of the people and you will need time to implement the various programmes and policies for the state. What will be your call to the people? Yes, we have to manage expectations and perceptions, but our government will have sympathy and empathy. We are going to have social safety nets around administration to make sure that we give some succour to the vulnerable and to the disadvantaged in the society. Students that are not given scholarships, we will definitely take care of them. Women and children that are suffering will have to be taken care of. We will try to create and provide jobs through various means. In the sanitation sector alone, we will have sanitary inspectors and other things that governments are doing all over the world. As I said, we want to do so many things. There are areas where the state has relative comparative advantages. Which areas will specifically be given attention? We will create value chains around agriculture where we will make agriculture a business. We want to have a paradigm shift; from the emphasis of working in government to self-employment. We will do everything with a strategic plan for sustainability through sound strategic economic plans so that people will be engaged. You have been emphasising on bringing in your expertise and experience as a former minister in charge of the FCT. What is it that you want to do different from what your predecessors did? I will make sure that there is transparency in what we do so that the whole world will know what we are doing. There must be inclusion and I will not sit down and be lamenting; I will make sure that I will not be passing the buck by blaming the past administration all the time. I will try and do what is good and necessary to show to the world that yes, we are better than them. Definitely we are not the same. My experience as a civil servant who rose from Level 8 to 17 to become a director, a senator and a Minister of the FCT cannot be compared to somebody who has not had that experience. So, I will bring my experience to bear. I will make sure that I incentivise the private sector to provide alternative financing so that we can close the gap in infrastructure and services. Services in the areas of education, areas of agriculture and of course, health. Our schools are in shambles. We will make sure that the common man has access to quality education and health services. Health services in the rural areas will be improved through the re-invigoration of the revolving fund so that rural people will have drugs in their health facilities at affordable prices. We will make sure we employ and have enough doctors. Today, we have only 44 doctors in the whole state. So, this is something that I am even ashamed to disclose. In my house, I have two doctors who have not been employed. I will make sure that they, alongside other Bauchi State indigenes are employed to support our healthcare system. My defeat, will of God – Yuguda How APC, PDP, others won seats in Bauchi APC set to receive Mu’azu as Buhari holds rally in Bauchi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin