Oyo state governor, Seyi Makinde, has approved the renewal of tenure of Bishop Ademola Moradeyo as the chairman of the state’s Pilgrims Welfare Board (Christian Wing). He has also appointed Mr. Akeem Azeez as Personal Assistant I to the governor. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, said the governor has also appointed Samson Adejumo as Personal Assistant II and Miss Ololade Adejumo as Special Assistant on Special Duties. Similarly, the governor has also named Pastor Layi Adisa as Chaplain of the Government House, while Pastor Emmanuel Folayemi Akanmu was appointed as Deputy Chaplain. Bishop Moradeyo, whose tenure was renewed by the governor, is currently the Bishop of Methodist Church Nigeria Diocese of Ogbomoso. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Bachelor’s degree in Theology from the Lutheran College of India, and had served as a President of the Ibadan Progressive Union. He is also the current Chairman of the Ogbomoso Community Forum. The newly-appointed Personal Assistant (I) to Governor Makinde, Azeez, holds a Higher National Diploma in Mass Communication from The Polytechnic Ibadan and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Philosophy and Public Affairs from the University of Ibadan. Also, Adejumo, who is the PA (II), graduated with a degree in Economics from the University of Abuja. He has worked in several managerial and consultant capacities dealing with logistics in private, government and international organisations. He had worked as a Business Development Executive at Makon Engineering and Technical Services Limited. The governor wished the new appointees the best in their new assignments. Hajj calendar sacrosanct, CSO replies Oyo gov-elect Hajj calendar sacrosanct, CSO replies Oyo Gov-elect Ajimobi, APC congratulate Makinde, thank Oyo voters Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin