The presidency yesterday said former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, owes an answer to Nigerians on his absence from the 2019 presidential inauguration and Democracy Day celebration. Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu in a statement last night, said the claim that he (Obasanjo) was not invited or did not receive an invitation cannot be sustained. “Since the claim was first made, elements in the polity that have deliberately and consistently been trying to lead the country toward polarization have cashed in on it, throwing all manner of rubbish at the Buhari’s Presidency. “The fact remains that the Secretary to the Government, Boss Mustapha wrote on May 16, 2019, to: “His Excellency, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, GCFR, Former President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Agbe L’Oba House, Quarry Road, Ibara, P.O.Box 2286, Abeokuta, Ogun State,” he said. He said the invitation was sent to Chief Obasanjo’s known forwarding address, detailing out all the major events, and the invitation cards were delivered by a reputable courier company as confirmed. He added that receipt of the letter and invitation cards as delivered by the courier company was confirmed by Mr. Taiwo Ojo, the long-standing personal secretary to the former president. “If, in the circumstance, Chief Obasanjo did not see or receive the letter and invitation cards as published by Vanguard newspaper (Page 16, June 16, 2019) and several other news platforms, then the former president needs to find out what is happening with his own secretariat. “The government office did its job diligently and should not be blemished for no reason,” he said. We've learnt not to take Obasanjo's utterances seriously- Presidency You’re confused, Presidency slams Obasanjo Obasanjo, Atiku will lose together – Presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin