A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, on Monday, called for the immediate resignation of the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. He equally called for Prof. Yakubu’s arrest and prosecution over the flagrant breach of his Oath of Office and the Constitution during the conduct of the 2019 General elections. Frank stated this in a statement he issued in reaction to the report of the European Union Election Observation Mission in Nigeria for the 2019 General Elections. He noted that the submission by INEC before the Presidential Election Tribunal that it had no server had finally exposed Prof. Yakubu and members of the Commission as working to subvert judicial process. He wondered why the INEC should claim that it had no server whereas money was voted for the establishment of same in previous approved budgets. Frank however, lauded a former Chairman of INEC, Prof. Attahiru Jega, who had publicly stated that INEC, indeed, had a server and that results were electronically transmitted during the 2015 general elections. The European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) for the 2019 General Elections in Nigeria had, in its final report, described the 2019 presidential, governorship, federal and state Assembly elections as highly flawed and devoid of expected transparency and credibility. Maria Arena, the EU Chief Observer, had, while unveiling the report in Abuja said: “The mission concluded that the systemic failings seen in the elections, and the relatively low levels of voter participation, show the need for fundamental electoral reform.” “The EU report prioritized seven recommendations of the 30, one of which was that Nigeria to Strengthen INEC procedures for the collation of results to improve integrity and confidence in electoral outcomes.” While commending the EU EOM for their courageous report and detailed recommendations, he called on the governments of the respective EU countries to immediately slam visa restrictions on those who masterminded and perpetrated the heinous irregularities, violence and anti-people tendencies witnessed during the elections. 2019 elections: EU submits findings report to INEC Group demands Yakubu ouster over Amina appointment at INEC INEC to Obasanjo: We’re not under pressure to compromise polls Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin