The presidential tribunal has concluded pre-hearing proceedings in the petition by PDM and its presidential candidate, Aminchi Habu, challenging the February 23 presidential election. The chairman of the five-member tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba, said in view of the conclusion of preliminary issues in the petition, the panel will on July 10 present its pre-hearing report to the public, which will signal beginning of the main hearing in the petition. However, PDM and Habu’s counsel, Aliyu Lemu Esq told the tribunal that they would require one day to prove their case against INEC and President Muhammadu Buhari. He said they would call two witnesses and reserve the right to call a witness from INEC during the main trial. On his part, INEC counsel, Yunus Ustaz Usman (SAN) said the commission would need one day to defend its case, and would need two witnesses. Buhari’s counsel, Alex Izinyon (SAN) pleaded for two days to defend the petition by PDM. He said the president would call three witnesses. Also, the APC, through its counsel, Niyi Akintola (SAN) pleaded for three days to defend the petition. The party said it had four categories of witnesses to call with a yet-to-be determined number. PDM and Habu brought the petition challenging their exclusion from participating in the February 23 presidential election brought under Section 138 of the Electoral Act, 2010, which held that the election would be nullified where “a candidate was validly nominated but unlawfully excluded.” Meanwhile, the tribunal has adjourned to July 2 to enable INEC react to a counter affidavit in the petition by Hope Democratic Party (HDP) challenging the election, after it dismissed the application seeking the withdrawal of the petition filed by the party’s presidential candidate, Ambrose Owuru. Tribunal closes pre-hearing session in PDM's petition against Buhari, others Tribunal adjourns until May 6 suit challenging Ndume’s election How courts will decide Buhari, Atiku’s fate Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin