A 32 year-old fake military captain, Ikwuegbuku Ikechukwu Stanley, was yesterday dragged before a  chief magistrate court in Akure, Ondo state capital, for impersonation and illegal possession of military items. Stanley was said to be parading himself as a captain of Nigerian Army. He was brought before the court on a three count-charge of impersonating and unlawful possession of military items. The accused was said to have committed the offence on May 31, 2019, at about 9.00 pm in Oja-Oba, Akure. Stanley was also alleged to have willfully and unlawfully harmed one Onyeka Okpara by stabbing his right hand finger with Jack Knife. He was also alleged of being in possession of military items which he could not give a satisfactory account of, how he came about them. The items include a three Nigerian military fez cap, two Nigerian military round caps, one military belt, one Bible covered with military colour, five pieces of military wrapr paper, one international passport, bearing his name and three Jack knives. The alleged offence according to the Prosecution counsel, Inspector Uloh Goodluck, was contrary to section 252 and punishable under section 395, 109 and 428(d) of the Criminal Code Cap 37 volume 1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria 2006. However, the accused pleaded not guilty to the charge when it was read to him. The Prosecution counsel also told the court that two of the four witnesses were in court. He therefore, prayed the court for an adjournment to enable him gather all witnesses and to study the case file properly before the next date. Lawyer to the accused person, Mr. I. Mafimisebi, did not object to the adjournment date sought by the prosecutor, but prayed the court to grant the defendant bail in most liberal term. The magistrate, Mrs. Charles Adeyanju, granted bail to the defendant in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum, whom she said must produce evidence of tax clearance for this current year. The case was adjourned to August 5, 2019.  Fake preachers arrested for  impersonating military officers ‘I wear Army uniform to evade paying transport fare’ A week before our son’s pardon, we had cancelled Christmas and New Year celebrations to fast and pray for his release – Akwara Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin