Air Peace on Tuesday disagreed with the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) that it has consistently failed to file Mandatory Occurrence Report (MOR) on incidents involving its aircraft. The airline in a statement wondered if such statement was issued in good faith, adding that it was a misrepresentation of facts concerning the incidents in question. On the night of May 15, 2019, an Air Peace Boeing 737-300 with registration number 5N – BUK made a hard landing in Lagos on account of sudden change in weather at the point of touch down. The airline said the AIB grossly misrepresented the facts when it alluded that the airline only reported the incident after the bureau’s team visited its corporate headquarters in Lagos on June 6, 2019, which was about three weeks after the incident. Contrary to the statement by AIB, Air Peace said it notified the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) of the incident on May 16, 2019, before it followed up with a written communication and subsequently filed an MOR on May 17, 2019, with reference number APL/QM/279/19. It complied with the statutory time-lime for the filing of MOR, the airline said. The airline queried: “Was the press statement intended to scare the flying public against an airline that has consistently demonstrated zero tolerance for unsafe practices?” The airline also expressed surprise at AIB’s ‘dredging up’ of the incident, which occurred on December 14, 2018, en route Enugu Airport, during which oxygen masks were automatically deployed as a result of change in cabin pressure. The airline said matters related masks dropping during flight is not peculiar to Air Peace, but common to airlines the world over. AIB accuses Air Peace of not reporting serious accidents Over 100 passengers stranded as ground equipment damages Air Peace plane AIB investigates Aero air incident Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin