A political analyst and Kogi State indigene, Bala Haruna, has underscored the need to allow Kogi West senatorial district to produce the next governor of the state in the interest of justice and fair play. Haruna, in a release yesterday, said of the three zones in the state, only the West, the second largest ethnic group, has never governed the state. He said Babatunde Irukera, the present Director-General of the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), would be the perfect alternative to the ‘faltering’ Governor Yahaya Bello. He said, “A cosmopolitan, and a technocrat with vast international exposure and connection will be the breath of fresh air that Kogi desperately needs at this trying times. It will be recalled that he contested the 2015 elections but as a faithful and loyal party man, he stepped down at the last minute for Late Abubakar Audu. “What happened in that election is now history as Audu, the presumed winner passed on before the official declaration of results, while his Kogi West deputy, James Faleke was eventually prevented from ascending the throne based on some alleged lacuna in the electoral act. “However, not a few people believed that Kogi West was deliberately schemed out of the governorship by vested interests. “Compensating Kogi West with the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial ticket now becomes imperative in the interest of justice and fair play. “Given the level of resentment the people of the Confluence State have for the incumbent and by extension the APC, the party needs to field someone deemed a break from the norm with a record of performance in both public and private sectors, that is where Irukera comes in.” Kogi: Top contenders to ‘battle’  Gov Bello Kogi: Battle of the Titans between Wada, Audu 17 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin