The gubernatorial candidate of PDP in Kano, Alhaji Abba Kabir Yusuf, has expressed dismay over the alleged slow pace at which INEC is handling the party’s request of election documents. Yusuf, popularly known as Abba Gida-Gida, accused the electoral umpire of conniving with the ruling party in the state in order to delay the process so as to deny the opposition party access to the election materials. He made the accusation while addressing newsmen at the INEC headquarters in Kano, where he went to find out reasons for the “sluggish nature” with which INEC was handling the exercise, but met no official on seat who could attend to his request. “If you will recall, since the court case came up, we have petitioned the tribunal and requested them to mandate INEC to give us the photocopies of all the necessary election documents, but unfortunately, things have been going very sluggishly,” he said. He further explained that there was an ex parte order compelling INEC to issue all the electoral documents needed to be presented before the tribunal, but that nothing much had been achieved. “At the expiration of the ex parte order, INEC asked us to vacate their premises; that they could not give any other document. That necessitated us to go back to court to seek for an extension of time, which was granted,” he said. Yusuf said, unfortunately, INEC was still reluctant to issue the documents as only a voters’ register from one out of the 44 local government areas was made available. “We are confused, we don’t know whether INEC is conniving with the powers that be to deny us this right so that they could buy time to amend all the defects and flaws that they did during the election,” he said. He appealed to INEC not to be partisan and do what was right and be fair to all parties. Effort to get INEC’s reaction at the time of filing this report proved abortive. APC Lawyers set to defend Governor Ganduje at tribunal Real reasons Ganduje is after Emir Sanusi Why Ganduje’s Re-election Cannot Stand – Abba Kabir Yusuf (Abba Gida-Gida) Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin