The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has slammed a fine on Cummins Power Generation Nigeria Limited (CPGNL) for encroaching on the distribution network of Ikeja Electric, one of the two Distribution Companies (DisCos) in Lagos. Daily Trust analysis shows CPGNI would pay a fine of at least N10.2 million uptill May 2019 for the infraction. NERC had asked it to pay N10,000 daily since the infraction began (estimated at August 2016)  until it complied with the order. In an order No./NERC/GL/167, the commission said it received a notice of objection dated 9 August 2018 from Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) against CPGNl’s application on grounds of network encroachment by supplying customers on IE’s priority feeders without the approval of the commission. The DisCo had also accused the company of tampering with distribution infrastructure. NERC said it then set up a Technical Investigation Team (TIT) to investigate the claim and found it was true as CPGNI was supplying electricity to Nigerian Carton and Packaging Manufacturing Company Limited (NICAPACO) and that NICAPACO connected Fountain of Life Church in lIupeju without the approval of NERC. The commission said it sent a Notice of Intention to Commence Enforcement (NICE) to the firm on January 30, 2019 and CPGNl responded to it on February 11, 2019. In its response, CPGNl said it applied to NERC on June 28, 2016 for an off-grid generation licence to generate and supply 1.75 megawatts (MW) to NICAPACO following the commission’s procedures. It said there was no objection after 21 days of publishing a notice on the application; NERC also did not send any correspondence to the company stating any objections to the application. “CPGNl took NERC’s silence as acceptance, in line with the Executive Order 01 issued by the Vice President for the purpose of ease of doing business,” the firm stated in the NERC order. However, NERC in the order released recently directed the immediate suspension of electricity supply to NICAPACO from CPGNl’s plants. It also ordered the decommissioning of the distribution infrastructure from NICAPACO to Fountain of Life Church and compensation of the DisCo for the loss.  NERC fines Ikeja Disco N131.4m for not supplying paid meters Discos’ fine attracts 5% daily interest, NERC says DisCos want capacity charges erased from invoices Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin