The immediate past national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Odigie-Oyegun, has accused his successor, Adams Oshiomhole, of being the brain behind the travail of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. Odigie-Oyegun, who spoke through his Special Assistant on Political Affairs, Chief Ray Murphy, said the crisis rocking Edo State House of Assembly arose from the actions of ‘godfather’ trying to overheat the polity. He particularly said the action of Oshiomhole who was distracting the governor of Edo State could be likened to anti-party activities. “Oyegun has no personal grievances with Oshiomhole but Nigerians must know that he cannot go to equity with unclean hands. “Today, there are all kinds of rancour coming from Edo State. They all boil down to attempt by godfather and godfatherism that is hitting up the polity in the state. Obaseki is the executive governor of Edo state and he should be allowed to exercise the powers vested on him by the law. To what purpose is this idea of the APC chairman putting the state under tension? “Ask anybody from Edo state, what is Obaseki’s biggest distraction and they will tell you that his distraction is not whether he has governed well or not, but from his immediate predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole. “It is very unfortunate  especially considering the fact that he is the national chairman of the same party with the governor. I have not heard that PDP or Edo leaders want to remove Obaseki. What has been trending is how his predecessor who happens to be the party chairman does want him back in the office. “The problem of the APC is from a singular man, the national chairman who runs the party like an executive chairman. The idea of working singlehanded and inducing the party members to endorse is the problem of the party.” Oyegun to Oshiomhole: You are distracting Obaseki APC crisis:  Oyegun not responsible for Oshiomhole's travail, says party chieftain PDP won''t have won Oyegun''s unit, if we rigged Edo poll —  Oshiomhole Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin