Nigeria and Ghana are two rather presumptuous cousins. When the two national sides meet at a football march it always feels like the Battle of Armageddon. But when either team faces another, one tends to rally in support of the other. Nigerian music is all the rage in Ghana, as is Nollywood and its gaggle of characters. The young taxi driver that drove me around during a recent visit to Accra always addressed me as “Igwe” or “Chief”, to my eternal irritation. After a week of driving us round Accra, he handed me a bill of a whopping US$700. When I raised eyebrows, he expressed surprise. He said most of the “Igwes” that were his clients — governors, senators and the likes – never had occasion to question his billing. I had difficulty convincing him I was no Chief and no Igwe. But I managed to beat it down to US$500. I went to Ghana in company of my better half Mrs Margaret Mailafia. On the return journey, I was ahead of her at the immigration queue at Kotoka International Airport. I passed without incidence. When it was her turn, they asked her to empty everything from her lady’s bag. She obeyed. When she emerged at the other end to recoup her belongings, an envelope with some dollars in it could not be found. When she went to complain, the immigration officials descended on her, calling her a liar and a “Nigerian 419”. The bedlam was becoming intolerable. The poor woman was reduced to tears. Suddenly, a woman that looked like the boss sauntered into the affray with the hauteur of Caesar looking down upon the vulgar crowd.  Facing us, she demanded to know what the kerfuffle was all about. We explained that after recouping the contents of her bag at the checkpoint, an envelope containing some money disappeared. Madam Caesar frowned scornfully with disbelief. I calmly warned that if the envelope could not be found we would be left with no option than to call our friends in the Presidency.  I explained that my wife is a highly qualified systems analyst and an evangelist to boot; therefore calling her a “419” was unacceptable. It was as if a balloon had been deflated!  A plaintive voice from the background suddenly announced that they had just seen a white envelope lying on the floor. Could that, by any chance, be ours? It sure was! It was handed back to my wife with a profusion of apologies. At that point my wife just wanted us to leave. I insisted she counted the money in full view of everyone. It was intact. I thanked Madam Caesar and her colleagues for having outdone Nigerians in the business of corruption. As far as I know, no Nigerian immigration official would ever attempt to defraud innocent travellers in such a cheap and stupid way. Most would rather beg for a dime or two. Ghanaians are fond of referring all Nigerians as “corrupt”, when in truth, there is no Nigerian to beat the record of the Ghanaian currency trader Kweku Adoboli who defrauded Swiss investment bankers UBS of more than US$2 billion in London. The kind of market corruption that afflicted Ghana decades ago, known as “kalabule”, is virtually unknown in Nigeria. The typical Ghanaian trader would buy a product at a wholesale unit price of 10 cedis and would want to resell at 50 cedis. A typical Igbo trader, on the other hand, would be happy to part with the same product for 25 cedis. The Ghanaian gets angry that the Igbo trader is making a brisk turnover. What follows is jealousy, vengefulness and xenophobia. The relations between our peoples go back to antiquity. The Ga of Greater Accra and the Ewe of the Volta Region, historians tell us, are branches of the ancient Bini people of Nigeria.  Some of my friends from the Dagomba Kingdom of northern Ghana – the Lions of Dagbon – trace their origins to Gombe in northern Nigeria. Many of the Hausa-speaking peoples of Kumasi and Tamale trace their origins to Kano and Katsina. The intellectual odyssey of Nnamdi Azikiwe in America served as a great inspiration to many Ghanaians of that generation, notably Kwame Nkrumah. When Nkrumah decided to go to the United States in the faithful year of 1939 he spent several months with cousin who was working in Lagos. It was from Lagos that he finally set sail for the United States. He also attended the same Lincoln College that Zik had earlier attended. When Azikiwe returned from academic sojourn he first settled in Ghana where built up a thriving newspaper business. When he returned from his sojourn in America, he first came to London, intending to study law. He was virtually homeless and was accommodated by a young Nigerian law student by the name of Egbert Udoma; later to become Chief Justice of Uganda and a Justice of Nigeria’s Supreme Court. The late Sir Egbet Udo Udoma noted in his autobiography, The Eagle in its Flight (Grace & Son, 2008), that his former roommate was “rather too political”. As it happens, Nkrumah and Chief Obafemi Awolowo were the best of friends. When the former first visited Nigeria in 1961 he stayed at the latter’s home in Ibadan. The rivalry between our peoples dates back to colonial times. The British, it would seem, treated their Gold Coast subjects a step higher than they did us. They trained more administrators in the Gold Coast and established more elite schools than in the rest of the African dependencies. Mfantsipim in Cape Coast was founded as an elite boys’ school in 1876. Adisadel came in 1910 while Achimota was founded much in 1924. Although we in Nigeria had a head start, with Baptist Academy, Lagos (1855) and CMS Grammar School (1859), none was in the league of the great Ghanaian schools. Our own version of Eton, Kings College Lagos, was founded 1909. An elderly friend who attended King’s in the late fifties told me that when they went on a cricket match at Achimota, the comportment and elocution of their counterparts made them look like “bushmen”. Ghana has always positioned herself as the pace-setter. Big Brother is mentioned, often as an object of derision. During the late sixties Prime Minister Kofi Busia expelled thousands of Nigerians, confiscating their businesses and properties. In the 1980s Shehu Shagari reciprocated the gesture. “Ghana Must Go” became a regrettable metaphor for our love-hate relationship. Today, Nigeria’s nouveaux riche have massively invested in Accra. Ghanaians blame them for the skyrocketing prices of properties in their national capital. More recently, Ghanaian authorities are humiliating Nigerian traders and closing down their businesses in Accra, Kumasi, Cape Coast and other cities. They have imposed all sorts of extortionate charges on them, contrary to the letter and spirit of ECOWAS. Thousands of our students are registered in Ghanaian universities, paying exorbitant fees that keep the Ghanaian education sector going. Most of those I have spoken to complain of one form of persecution or the other. I remember several years ago when we decided to drive from Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, to Lagos through Ghana, Togo and Benin Republic. Our worst nightmares were at the Ghanaian borders. At the western end, my family and I were detained for more than 12 hours, arriving Cape Coast in the pitch of night. At the Aflao border at the eastern flank, we were kept overnight under horrible conditions. The cruelty of the border guards when they realised we were Nigerians was unbelievable. Despite the differences, there have been lots of intermarriages. The first wife of late UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan was Titi Alakija of the famous Alakija family of Lagos. They were later, sadly, divorced. There are prominent Ghanaians who bear Yoruba names and whose parentage are Nigerian in origin. One of our great heroines is the late Ameyo Stella Adadevoh, the medical doctor who literally gave her life to prevent the Ebola pandemic from being spread in our country by an evil foreign agent. She was the daughter of the Ghanaian medical scientist Kweku Adadevoh who became the highly respected Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos. We Nigerians have always viewed Ghanaians as our brothers. In times of difficulty we have always stood by them. We have given aid in cash and kind. We have even quietly bankrolled a succession of Ghanaian leaders without demanding anything in return. How I wish the love is mutual! Under the leadership of President Nana Akufo-Addo and his deputy, my friend and Oxford mate, Muhammadu Bawumia, a new Ghana is emerging. From being a basket case in the eighties, the country registered an impressive 8.143% growth in 2017 and is forecast to exceed 8.8% in 2019. They have, wisely, never allowed the discovery of oil to get into their heads. They want to avoid Nigeria’s ghastly mistakes. Rather, they are deploying their oil wealth as a vehicle for economic and social transformation. Last year President Akufo-Addo expelled more than 50,000 illegal Fulani herdsmen families, with the terse warning that “this is not Nigeria”. For better or worse, I will always love Ghana. There is no time I ever visited Accra without making the pilgrimage to the Nkrumah Mausoleum to pray at the graveside of the great man. Except for the tasteless food, I enjoy everything about Accra. The streets are safe and the people are friendly. If we could overcome our mutual suspicions, Ghana and Nigeria would become the torchbearers of the African Renaissance that will rejuvenate our continent in the twenty-first century. Mailafia is an Abuja-based development economist.  Amaka Igwe: She came, she saw, she made a difference Dimgba Igwe: A journalist’s death that sent a shockwave across an industry Who is Eze Ndi Igbo in Ghana? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin