The emergence of Alhaji Aminu Achida (APC – Wurno) as the Speaker of the Sokoto House of Assembly may have come as a rude shock to many APC supporters in the state. But political observers who were privy to the game plan foresaw the plot by the PDP-led government to impose someone they would be comfortable with.  The development was viewed as the last stroke that nailed the chances of the opposition All Progressive Congress (APC) to at least have a stake in the affairs of the state despite its numerical advantage in the state Assembly. The APC has 16 out of the 30 lawmakers while the remaining 14 belong to the ruling People Democratic Party (PDP). Based on this, the Speaker and other principal officers are expected to come from the party with the higher number of seats. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that it was in anticipation of this that Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal hurriedly sent his commissioner nominees to the 8th House few days before its tenure expired and sought their approval to appoint Special Advisers. He also sought to borrow the sum of N27 billion for 2019 Hajj exercise and to meet up with other pressing expenses. The screening, the confirmation and approvals were done same day that the letters were read at the chamber of the House which was at that time led by the PDP. Still worried about the likely composition of the 9th House, the governor intensified intrigues and scheming to ensure that the person who would lead the House was either from his party or someone who he was comfortable with. He finally settled for Achida, who had been in the House for three consecutive terms. As Tambuwal was tirelessly working towards actualizing his dream of having the House completely in his grip, the de facto leader of APC in the state and former governor, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko was working to prevent that. He gave all the lawmakers elected under the party what is described in football as close marking. It would be recalled that the Senator had vowed not to allow any contact between them and Governor Tambuwal, hence his decision not to allow them attend the 8th Assembly-organized retreat which held in Kaduna State. Instead he was said to have personally organized a separate retreat for them in Abuja, which took place almost simultaneously with that of the House. Also, it was alleged that APC had forced the lawmakers to swear with the Holy Qur’an not to betray the party in electing the House leaders. Two of the lawmakers whose loyalty was in doubt were said to have taken oath in presence of their parents not to do anything that would undermine the chances of the party during the election. The two lawmakers were those of Wamakko, Maigona who is the younger brother to the Director General of the Tambuwal/Sardauna Campaign Organization in the last Governorship election, Alhaji Mukhtari Maigona and that of Achida.  The mother of Achida was said to have threatened to curse him if he ever betrayed Alu, as Senator Wamakko is fondly called in the state and the party in the House election. One of the state executive members of the APC who spoke on condition of anonymity had confided in our reporter that they learnt that about two of their members would compromise but that when contacted by the party, they vehemently denied the allegation. Speaking on stories making the rounds that they had forced their members to swear with the Holy Qur’an, he said: “All I am aware of is that we asked leaders of the party at the local government levels to sit and talk to their members on the need to respect and protect the interest of the party at the legislative house.” Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that APC had made its position known to the members on who should become the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the House from the party among other positions before they went for inauguration.  A source alleged that unknown to them some members were induced and had already compromised. The decision of the management of the State Assembly to bar any non – lawmaker from entering the premises of the Assembly during the inauguration of the 9th House heightened suspicion among leaders and supporters of APC who stormed the House in their numbers in a long motorcade. It appeared as if they had the premonition that the state government was up to something. Even journalists who arrived the Assembly ahead of the scheduled inauguration were barred from covering the ceremony by armed security operatives who said they were acting on the directive given to them by the management of the House. Road users were also barred from plying the road linking the Assembly complex with the Government House while the inauguration lasted. State Chairman of APC, Alhaji Isa Sadiq, who was present described the action as strange to democracy which he noted gives every citizen the right to witness inauguration and even the proceedings of members who they had elected to represent them in the House. “We are here to witness the inauguration and the election of principal officers of the House but to our greatest surprise we are barred by the police without any justifiable reason,” he said. The chairman had however ruled out the possibility of betrayal by any of their elected member, saying “they are strongly united in protecting the interest of the party.” But the outcome of the election proved him wrong as the PDP-backed Achida eventually emerged Speaker, having scored 16 votes to defeat Sidi who scored 13 votes. Alhaji Abubakar Magaji (PDP- Bodinga North) was re-elected Deputy Speaker with 17 votes against 12 votes scored by the APC candidate, Alhaji Isa Harisu (APC- Kebbe), for that position. This development threw many APC members and supporters into disarray, it was gathered. The outcome of the elections showed that four members of the APC had voted against the party as, three voted Achida against their party’s candidate for the Speakership while four voted for the PDP member who contested against their own member for the position of Deputy Speaker. A former member of the House who sought anonymity said by implication, APC is now reduced to only 13 members because there is a likelihood that the remaining three would soon decamp to PDP or stay in the party but be working for the ruling party against the interest of APC. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that the Speaker had met some APC officials in the state and reaffirmed his loyalty and allegiance to the party but there is no report of him visiting the leader of the party, Senator Wamakko or its secretariat since becoming the speaker. The Secretary of the APC, Abubakar Yabo said leaders of the party were not holding any grudge against the Speaker despite his ‘‘violation’’ of their arrangement and that they would support him to succeed  because he is still their member. He dismissed insinuations  that the 9th House would be used as rubber stamp by Governor Tambuwal, saying the lawmakers were in the position to decide what is best for the state and its people. A political analyst, Malam Abubakar Umar, opined that in politics there is no such thing as betrayal because politicians often aim at outsmarting one another both horizontally and vertically even within the party. “As for those who outsmarted their party, they only displayed the manifestation in the new political thinking that the progression of any politician is dependent on how he or she can capitalize on any situation as in the case of Sokoto where Achida’s loyalty to his party would have denied him opportunity of becoming Speaker of the state House of Assembly,” he stated. On his expectation of the House, he said it is unlikely that the Assembly would be used as rubber stamp because ‘‘a number of the APC lawmakers would continue to demonstrate their loyalty to their party until they are able to manipulate and profit from any situation as Achida did.” PDP-backed APC member emerges Sokoto's Speaker APC produces speaker in PDP-led Sokoto Fulani leaders, followers defect to APC in Sokoto – Chairman Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin