The Air Peace aircraft which overshot the runway of Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa Rivers State on Saturday has been removed finally, Daily Trust confirmed on Sunday. The aircraft was cleared yesterday’s afternoon clearing the way for resumption of flights to the Airport 24 hours after the incident happened. Spokesperson of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, confirmed that the aircraft was moved away. The Air Peace aircraft flight P47291 from Abuja had skidded off the runway on landing at the Port Harcourt airport due to heavy downpour. All the passengers – 87 passengers and crew members – were disembarked safely without any casualty. The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has dispatched its team to the site to commence probe of the incident, Daily Trust reports. Flight operations to the airport have been stalled since Saturday when the incident happened leaving many passengers stranded from various airports. The authorities had earlier issued a Notice To Airmen (NOTAM) informing airline operators and pilots of the temporary closure of the airport. A passenger who was to travel to Port Harcourt from Lagos on Sunday morning told our correspondent that the flight was cancelled as the airport was still closed. But the airport has reopened after the aircraft was moved away. The Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) also confirmed that the airport has now been reopened, saying a NOTAM has been issued to the airlines. “NOTAM is being issued right now on the reopening”, a spokesperson of NAMA, Steve Onabe said as at the time of filing this report. Port Harcourt Airport reopens after Air Peace incident Air Peace Abuja-PHC flight overshoots runway Air Peace aircraft skids off runway in P/Harcourt Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin