The NSA disclosed this during a joint press briefing on the outcome of the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting presided by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the State House, Abuja.The federal government is considering proscribing the Almajiri system to address the rising insecurity in the country, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, has said. Monguno briefed journalists alongside the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Adamawa Governor, Ahmadu Fintri, Anambra, Willie Obiano and Ondo Rotimi Akeredolu. Monguno said: “It is very important to proscribe certain groups ultimately running around under the guise of maybe getting some kind of education that is not really formal and then begin to cause a lot of problems for society. “Ultimately, government will have to proscribe this Almajiri phenomenon because we cannot continue to have street urchins, children roaming around, only for them in a couple of years, or decades to become a problem to society. “We are not saying that they are going to be contained in a manner that you might think we want to do something that is harmful to them, no. What we want to do is to work with the state governments to enforce the policy of education for every child. It is every child’s right, his entitlement so long as he is a Nigerian.” He said the model used in the Western region in the 50s and 60s would be consolidated upon and adopted to address the Almajiri challenge. “If you recall what happened in the Western region, I think in the 50s and the 60s when the Premier made education free and compulsory at both primary and secondary levels. This is what we are looking at,” he said. Monguno, a retired Major General, said one of the elements of national power was the population of a country. “Population is a very critical element of national power. It is from the population that you get a critical mass. So, when we look at population, as an element of National security, don’t be surprised if out of every 100 almajiri, you have two neurologists, four architects, two lawyers, and so on and so forth. “If you don’t start thinking about short and long term to overcome this problem, like I told you earlier on, you require collective efforts. You can’t carry this load and drop it on top of the government, even government should not work as a one-legged tripod, it has to be three-legged. “We have to deal with the issue of these children, Almajiri, regardless of how people feel about it. We must work in sync with the rest of international communities. How many countries operate this kind of system? “Let’s be very, very sincere to ourselves, we have to look at this issue that we have been sweeping under the carpet. “So, when I briefed the NEC, I alerted them on the dangers of this phenomenon and the President in inaugurating NEC also stressed that we must make education free and compulsory. We are not trying to denigrate any group of people,” he said. He said the Boko Haram insurgency continues to remain very fragile, adding that it’s still a problem that needs to be readdressed with collective effort of both intelligence and operations. Armed banditry replacing terrorism “In the meantime, troops of the multinational task force has been conducting offensive operations against these elements in the Lake Chad Area, especially the Islamic State West Africa Province, whose activities have now stretched all the way down into the Lake Chad Area,” he said. He said armed banditry was gradually replacing terrorism, which was the primary security threats. “Now, the bandits in the northwest have become major threats to national security. Of course in recent weeks the Nigerian Police Force has made a lot of gains in dealing with these criminals. “I also briefed council on the activities of herdsmen/farmers. Their activities are limited to 16 states so far, but council is working on the blueprint, it is on the verge of releasing this blueprint to solve this problem. It is a complex problem but it is about to be resolved within the council,” he said. He said in recent months, they have destroyed   373 illegal refineries. “I also briefed council on the drivers of insecurity which are unemployment, under-employment, poverty, drugs abuse, rising population. …sets up security and policing c’ttee Also speaking, the IGP said generally the internal security situation in the country has improved. “The progress we got in taming security situation was as a result of cooperation from members of the community. He said they are bringing back the safer city concept, whereby major cities in the country would be connected to closed-circuit television (CCTV). He said they have started with the FCT and that, they have written to states government to key into the strategy. He disclosed that the council has set up a security and policing committee as part of measures to reduce crimes in the country. The members of the committee, according to the IGP include the governors of Ekiti, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Katsina, Kogi and Borno states. He said they will be joined by the NSA, IGP and Chief of Defence Staff C’ttee to reconcile excess crude account, NNPC remittances Meanwhile, the council has constituted an ad-hoc committee to reconcile excess crude account, NNPC remittances and other related issues. Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintri who also briefed newsmen, said the governors of Edo Kaduna Jigawa and Ebonyi states are members of the committee. “The committee will meet with relevant federal government agencies for the reconciliation,” he said. Buhari: It’s a crime for parents to keep children out of school Earlier while inaugurating the NEC, President Muhammadu Buhari stressed the need for governors to enforce very rigorously the statutory provisions on free and compulsory basic education. “Section 18(3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended places on all of us here an obligation to eradicate illiteracy and provide free and compulsory education. “Section 2 of the Compulsory, Free Universal Basic Education Act provides that every Government in Nigeria shall provide free, compulsory and universal basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age. “It is indeed a crime for any parent to keep his child out of school for this period. In my view, when a government fails to provide the schools, teachers and teaching materials necessary for basic education, it is actually aiding and abetting that crime,” he said. He said ensuring proper education during the first nine years of schooling means that the children start off their lives with some discipline and education. The president said the children will be safeguarded from roaming the streets, and protected from all the evil influences that assail idle hands and idle minds. He said while the Federal Government has primary responsibility for security and will not shy away from it, the states also have a critical role to play. “You can definitely make a difference, not just by assisting the security agencies in your respective states, but also by keenly pursuing policies and programmes that forestall communal, tribal, religious and societal conflicts; policies and programs that promote education, information, dispute resolution, vocational training and youth employment,” he said. The president said his administration has in the last four years demonstrated unwavering inclusiveness in dealing with every state, notwithstanding the political leaning of the governor or the predominant party in power at the state level. “I want this to be your model at the state level. No matter which party we belong to, let us shun divisive policies and join hands together for the upliftment of our people,” he said. President asks govs to boost IGR The president also asked state governors to find ways to increase their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) in the next four years for the stimulation of the economy. He requested the governors to find means to improve Value Added Tax (VAT) and increase agricultural output without disrupting business activities in their respective states. Daily Trust reports that in line with section 153 and paragraph 18 of the 3rd schedule of the constitution the Constitution, NEC has the mandate to advise the President on economic policy of the country. The inauguration of the council, chaired by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, was done amidst state governors and some deputies. Among the governors in attendance were that of Lagos, Niger, Nasarawa, Ekiti, Borno, Ondo, Kano, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kwara, Yobe, Bayelsa, Edo, Adamawa, Kogi, Kaduna, Oyo, Plateau,Sokoto, Ogun, Ebonyi, Anambra and Gombe. Also in attendance were deputy governors of Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Katsina, Imo, Enugu, and Zamfara states. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, the Governor of CBN, Godwin Emefiele and the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno were also at the inauguration. Govs told to prioritise 4 issues “Your Excellencies, the challenges that confront us in the next few years, especially in the areas of security, human capital development and employment for our youths are monumental and historic. But we are more than equal to the task,” he said. The president urged NEC to pay special attention to the four major issues of security, education, health and agriculture in the coming years of this tenure. “As you are no doubt aware, our successes in these four areas will go a long way in lifting our people out of poverty and secure our future for sustainable growth and development,” he said. On Security, the president said  government will continue to rate security of lives and properties as top priority on their agenda. “We are firmly committed to securing the territorial integrity of our nation, while confronting the remnants of terrorists, bandits and other criminals across the country. “There must be collective and deliberate efforts by all to improve the security of lives and properties across the country. Security is a bottom to top operation. Everybody must be involved for total success,” he said. Earlier in his address, Osinbajo described the council as an important body for developing, advising and implementing issues relating to the country’s economy.  FG moves to proscribe Almajiri education system Banditry, Kidnapping, cultism: NEC sets up Security, Policing Committee Why we want to address Almajiri,  out-of-school children challenges – Group Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin