Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has said his administration is  committed  to advancing and supporting the fight against corruption in the state. He gave the assurance at a stakeholders meeting organized by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption in collaboration with the National Orientation Agency (NOA) held in Bauchi. Governor Mohammed, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) , Alhaji Muhammad Sabi’u Baba, stated that corruption was responsible for the backwardness of the country’s institutions adding that, there is  the need for all stakeholders and the citizens to reduce or eliminate the menace. The governor acknowledged the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to fight corruption in all its ramifications. He commended NOA in the state for its various sensitization campaigns for citizens on the negative effect of corruption as well as on other government programmes which he said has led to the acceptance of many programs introduced by both the state and federal government. Governor Mohammed  said that his administration would prosecute any official involved in corrupt practices. In a key note address, a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Professor Etannibi Alemika, noted that the committee found it necessary to seek partnership with NOA in order to achieve its set objectives. In his address the Bauchi State Director, National Orientation Agency, Alhaji Nuru Yusuf Kobi said the meeting was designed to enlighten citizens and mobilize mass support for the anti-corruption agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari. Kobi pointed out that there was the need for citizens to embrace positive attitudes, value and behavior that promote national unity, stability and development. The State NOA Director said that, the Agency in the state would conduct massive sensitization at the grassroots so to ensure active participation of people in the fight against corruption.  Bauchi, ICPC flag off anti-corruption campaign at summit Buhari vows to sanction lawyers, bankers facilitating corrupt practices EFCC denies N10m donation from Ganduje Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin