There was tension in Edo as youths of Okada area blocked the Benin – Lagos expressway smashing wind screens of vehicles belonging to travellers over the death of a woman allegedly killed by herdsmen. It was gathered that the incident happened at Okada junction by Ofumwengbe community in Ovia North-East local government of Edo state. But the state Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Muhammed, said it has not been ascertained how the woman died adding that there was no clash between the herdsmen and youths in the area. Source said the woman was alleged to have been killed by herdsmen when she went to the farm, as the corpse was discovered in the farm by some people. It was gathered that the youths initially went to the herdsmen settlement in the area but couldn’t meet them as they were said to have fled for safety. The youths were said to have blocked the highway after returning from the camp to protest the alleged killing. When contacted, the state Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Muhammed, said there was no fight between the herdsmen and youths in the area. “The youths blocked the road because a woman died in the farm and they alleged that it was herdsmen that killed her. They did not wait for police investigation but blocked the road and brought hardship on travellers who did not know anything about it. “The woman went to the farm and this morning she was discovered dead. The youths suspected it was herdsmen that killed her but nobody saw the herdsmen killing her,” he said. He warned youths not to embark on protest as hoodlums always hijack such protest to disturb the peace of the state. Police rescue seven as one dies during abduction in Edo 5 killed in fresh Plateau attack Inside story of Kafanchan bloodbath Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin