Nigerian aviation authorities are currently investigating the trending video of a helicopter that landed at Ore axis of the Lagos-Benin Expressway to pick a passenger. The one minute, 16 second video has gained traction on the social media with the chopper cleared to land by some mobile policemen along the expressway during traffic gridlock. Though helicopters are designed to land anywhere, apart from the designated helipad or airport, such chopper must be approved by the Air Traffic Control (ATC) under the purview of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). The agency said it never approved such landing, adding however that it was investigating the incident. In the video, other road users were seen watching with astonishment as the chopper landed to pick the said passenger who was stuck in the heavy gridlock. Another version of the story said it was a certain billionaire who hired the helicopter to pick his woman. Usually helicopters are deployed for emergency services especially evacuation of accident victims. But such operation comes with full imprimatur of the airspace authorities for safety purpose. However there are mixed reactions from experts over whether there was the necessary approval for the helicopter to land in the area. Spokesman of NAMA, Mr. Steve Onabe, said contrary to speculations in some quarters, the agency did not approve the landing, adding that investigation is ongoing to unravel the incident. Also speaking, spokesman of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Mr. Sam Adurogboye, said that helicopters can land anywhere as long as the operator secures the necessary approval. An aviation security analyst, Group Capt. John Ojikutu, rtd, called for investigation into the matter as all aircraft movements are approved and monitored by NAMA. He said, “This incident happened on a busy express road in the country supposedly to have ‘lifted or rescued a VIP’ out of a danger area. “It appears to me that nobody is looking at the security implications of this as a dangerous trend in the midst of the insecurity in the country. Not even the NCAA and NAMA have come out to tell us that the aircraft was duly cleared. “The registration number of the aircraft was not captured by any security agencies; this is a very dangerous trend that needs immediate investigation by responsible authorities before it gets copied by our homegrown terrorists.” NCAA investigates helicopter’s landing on Benin-Ore Highway NCAA investigates Helicopter landing on Benin – Ore expressway Mystery choppers can’t fly in without connivance – Experts Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin