The deputy governor of Kebbi state, Col. Samaila Dabai Yombe, (rtd) has said the present location of the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army’s Python International Golf Club used to be a den of armed robbers. Col. Yombe, who spoke to our reporter in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Saturday night shortly after the inauguration of the 22nd Executive Committee of the club, said what is known today as Python International Golf Club was a criminal’s hide-out where deadly armed robbers carry out their nefarious activities. He said on assumption of command of the two Air Mobile Brigades in 1986 in Port Harcourt, he observed the vast land bordering the Brigade Headquarters. He said the land was at a time thick forest and lying waste to the extent that armed robbers freely use the forest as a hide out. He said that the forest was strategically located such that armed robbers hiding within the shrubs were not noticed. He said a meeting with the first military administrator of old Rivers state, Chief Alfred Diate Spiff and one Chief Collins Dickson brought about the idea of constructing a golf course in the present location. “This particular building was harbouring arm robbers and we saw the marks they made on the walls. They wrote their names as well as where they robbed in the past. They were very bold. “When we started clearing the bushes to map out the locations for the golf course, we saw skeletons of human beings, being the result of their handiwork. “We have the cooperation of some persons such as Chief Collins Dickson who help a lot to ensure that this golf course was a reality. “Late Joe Ogboye designed and constructed the golf course free of charge. Chief Diate Spiff advised that we should expand the golf course hole from 9 to 18 which we did,” he narrated. He said his hard stance against insecurity was replicated in Kebbi where he has joined hand with the governor to address the issue of security in the state. Police kill 3 suspected robbers in Rivers Otukpo Club will produce world golfers - Mark Suspected killers of policemen in Jankasa, Birnin Gwari paraded in Kaduna Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin