Kano State is reputed among the top cities in Nigeria for business, and the free trade zone in the city has been its key enabler of industrialisation. The Kano Free Trade Zone is the second Federal Government-owned free zone established pursuant to Section 1 of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) Act 63 of 1992. It was declared an export processing zone in 1998, and in 2001, the transformation to free trade zones was approved by the Federal Government. Located on a 262 hectares of land at Panisau area of Ungogo Local Government Area of the state, the free trade hub started licensing, monitoring and regulating the activities of enterprises operating in the zone. “The zone is aimed at overcoming the difficulties and challenges companies encounter, especially in the areas of infrastructural development, functional amenities, taxation and high cost of production or overheads associated with capital intensive ventures,” the management of the zone stated in its mission statement. Key among its function is ensuring that investors do not only have a soft landing and impressive economic advantage, but enjoy various incentives for setting up their businesses. Daily Trust takes a look at some of the incentives that companies operating in the free trade zone benefit from as approved by NEPZA. Investors operating in the Kano Free Trade Zone enjoy complete tax holiday from all federal, state and local government taxes, rates, custom duties and levies. These taxes, no doubt, constitute a major drain on a company’s annual profit and in some cases, double taxation also worsens the case for companies not enjoying tax holiday as obtained in Kano Free Trade Zone. Note that the free zone is a one-stop approval point for all the permits, operating license and incorporation papers that investors need to start production. A great incentive worthy of note is the duty-free, tax-free import of raw materials and components for goods destined for re-export. There is also duty-free importation of capital goods, consumer goods, machinery, equipment and furniture and permission to sell 100 per cent of manufactured, assembled or imported goods into the domestic Nigerian market. However, when selling into the domestic market, the amount of import duty on goods manufactured in the free zone is calculated only on the basis of the value of the raw materials or components used in assembly, not on the finished products. In addition, there is 100 per cent ownership of investment, 100 per cent repatriation of capital, profits and dividends as well as waiver on all import licences and waiver on all expatriate quotas for companies operating in the zone. There is prohibition of strikes and lockouts and rent-free land during the first six months of construction. With perimeter of 8.6 kilometres, the free trade zone has tarred internal road networks, street lightening, drainage system, fencing, insurance companies and banks ready to use power, water, telecommunication networks and other infrastructures for immediate commencement of production by investors. The government of President Muhammadu Buhari has paid special attention to the upgrading of infrastructure in the Kano Free Trade Zone and other zones in the country. For instance, the Federal Government budgeted about N100 billion for the NEPZA for the development of critical infrastructure in the public zones during President Buhari’s first term. The Acting Managing Director of NEPZA, Engr. Terhemba Nongo, disclosed recently in Abuja that, “Because of these unprecedented capital votes, infrastructural transformation, renewal and upgrading has started in the Calabar Free Trade Zone (CFZ) as well as the Kano Free Trade Zone (KFZ), which are the two public or Federal Government-owned FZS.” Information from the Kano Free Trade zone says the zone has 19 warehouses, 33 registered companies among which 13 have been established and are in full operation. Many companies are already operating at the zone and some of them include Marshal Biscuits FZE, Afrique Ventures FZE, Afric Packs FZE, Nurture All Foods FZE and Coral Integrated FZE. Due to the strategic importance of the Kano Free Trade Zone to the country’s economy, a former NEPZA managing director, Hon. Emmanuel Jime, had to visit it when he was in office. Jime then announced increased funding for the zone, including increased presence of the joint task force to ensure smooth operations of companies operating in it. After 20 years of neglect, work resumes at Kano free trade zone Kano free trade zone: An unexplored goldmine N14.5bn budget cut affects export grant, textile park, others Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin