An Akure Chief magistrate Court has ordered the remand of two men, Peter Felix, 35, and Isaac Shedrack, 22, in prison for alleged burglary and stealing of property worth N200,000. Felix and Shedrack were dragged before the court on a four-count charge of conspiracy, burglary and stealing. According to the Police Prosecutor, Sergeant Adebayo Suleiman, the accused persons committed the offence on June 9, 2019, at about 7.00pm at Owode, Oba-Ile in Akure, Ondo state capital. The duo were said to have stolen two pumping machines and one electrical switch valued at about N200,000, property of one Victoria Bosede Titus and committed the offences, contrary to and punishable under sections 516, 413, 390 (9) and 412 (2). They pleaded not guilty to the charges when they were read to them. The prosecutor prayed the court to remand the two defendants in prison custody in view of count 2 and 4 of the charges, pending the legal advice from Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). Lawyer to the accused persons, Mrs. O. Adedire, did not oppose the remand application sought by the prosecutor. Magistrate, Mrs. Victoria Bob-Manuel, ordered the remand of the two defendants in prison custody pending the legal advice from the DPP’s office. Bob-Manuel directed the prosecutor to make both the original and duplicate copies of the case file available to the court clerk. She also directed that the court clerk should dispatch the duplicate to the DPP’s office while the original should be sent to the office of the Chief Registrar, Ondo State judiciary for safe keeping. The case was adjourned to July 18, 2019.   Man remanded in prison for stealing Bibles, N100,000 Man remanded in prison for stealing Bibles, N100,000 Court remands 6 men in Kirikiri Prison over alleged attempted robbery Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin