As part of its effort to engage the youth meaningfully, the Bayelsa State Ministry of Youth Development has trained over 1,000 youths in different skills and rudiments in establishing small scale businesses. Speaking, yesterday, during the opening ceremony of the seminar tagged, ‘Bayelsa Business Linkage Forum’, the Commissioner for Youth Development, Engr. Udense Eradiri, said the programme is aimed at bringing out enterprising youths in the state and coaching them to become prominent entrepreneurs in the nearest future. He said the programme was part of the initiatives to train youth to be job creators and not job seekers and commended Governor Seriake Dickson for his interest in youth development. “It is part of our initiatives to engage the youths meaningfully; teach them how to create jobs, because it is small businesses like this that will actually create the jobs that we are talking about. “If you develop one entrepreneur, he may end up employing five to 20 other persons. That is why we as a government must start to encourage them and bring them to a roundtable with industry operators and also expose them to loan facilities. “We have already collated database of young entrepreneurs in our ministry. We want to know those who are productive so that we will collaborate with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to be trained on how to make bigger businesses,” he said. Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd), who declared the training open, said the seminar was arranged to position the state for industrial development. Bayelsa trains 1,000 youths on entrepreneurship SMEDAN trains 104 young entrepreneurs on business development How we intend to change hate narrative among youths – Adhama Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin