National Assembly members aspiring to occupy positions of principal officers and chairmanship of ‘juicy committees’ in the two chambers, are deploying all their arsenals to outdo one another in the raging battle for the leadership posts. The race for principal officers and committees’ heads ensued immediately after the election of the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as well as their deputies. There are eight principal officers’ positions in each of the two chambers, with both the majority and minority parties sharing four each. Similarly, there are 66 standing committees in the Senate, while the House of Representatives has 96 standing committees, with about 50 percent of them termed as ‘juicy’. At the beginning of every assembly, senators and members of the House of Reps usually scramble for committees, especially ‘Grade A’ ones, known as ‘juicy’ in order to ‘settle’ themselves. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that the scenario is not different now as a lot of the lawmakers have since commenced lobbying for such positions. Some of the lawmakers, it was learnt, have resorted to following both Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila to wherever they go in order not to be forgotten. It was gathered that some of the lawmakers have moved to a popular Abuja hotel where they carry out their scheming on how to realise their ambitions for both principal officers’ positions and committees’ chairmanship. Some of the Grade A committees in both chambers include appropriation, finance, welfare (Senate/House) services, petroleum (upstream and downstream), power, works, housing, defence, army, navy, air force and education (basic and tertiary). Others are interior, foreign affairs, procurement, maritime, pensions, housing, works, police affairs, FCT, customs and excise, justice, judiciary (federal and FCT), privatisation and commercialization, water resources, health, public accounts, agriculture, aids, loans and debts management, anti-corruption, Diaspora, commerce, climate change, among many others. Our correspondent reports that the presiding officers, specifically the Senate President and the Speaker, usually reward those that worked for their emergence with such juicy committees. The immediate past Senate President Bukola Saraki and ex-speaker Yakubu Dogara both rewarded their loyalists, especially members of the PDP, with juicy committees. Dogara, for example, gave over 40 committees to the PDP, more than half of which were juicy. Lawan and Gbajabiamila are expected to announce the chairmen and deputy chairmen of the committees in the next few weeks. The Principal Officers The four principal officers’ positions for the majority party are Leader, Chief Whip, Deputy Minority Leader and Deputy Chief Whip, while those of the opposition are Minority Leader, Minority Whip, Deputy Minority Leader and Deputy Minority Whip. All the positions obtain in both chambers. It was learnt that the four positions will be shared among four geopolitical zones, namely North-Central, North-West, Southwest and South-East as the positions of the Senate President Lawan and the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege have already gone to the North-East and South-South, respectively. While the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was said to have resolved the issue of its principal officers and picked the four senators for the seats, the APC is yet to do that. It was learnt that the APC would decide on those that will be its leaders in both the Senate and the House between now and July 2, when the lawmakers will reconvene from their two weeks break. Those picked by the PDP are Eyinnaya Abaribe (Abia), as Minority Leader, Philip Aduda (FCT), Minority Whip, (Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba), Deputy Minority Whip and Clifford Odia (Edo), Deputy Minority Whip. In the case of the APC, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that no fewer than five senators have indicated interest for the position of Senate Leader, namely Abdullahi Adamu (APC, Nasarawa), Yahaya Abdullahi (APC, Kebbi), Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko (APC, Sokoto), Aliyu Abdullahi Sabi (APC, Niger) and Kabiru Gaya (APC, Kano). As for Chief Whip, Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that Sen Ajayi Boroffice (APC, Ondo) and former Senate Leader, Teslim Folarin (APC, Oyo) are said to be in the contest. It was also learnt that Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia) is in the contest for either Deputy Senate Leader or Deputy Majority Leader. Sources told Daily Trust on Sunday that the APC will in the end decide who gets what among all the contenders. In the House of Reps, those gunning for House Leader from the North-West include Musa Sarkin Adar (Sokoto), Aminu Suleiman (Kano), Garba Datti Muhammad (Kaduna), Alhassan Ado Doguwa (Kano) and Babangida Ibrahim (Katsina). From the North-East, Mohammed Tahir Monguno (Borno) and Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim (Yobe) are gunning for House Leader, but it was learnt that the position of House Chief Whip may be zoned to their geopolitical zone. From South-East is Nkeiruka Onyeajocha (Abia), who is said to be gunning for either Deputy House Leader or Deputy House Chief Whip, depending on which of the positions APC takes to her area, while the other may be zoned to the South-South. Both Speaker Gbajabiamila and the Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase are from Lagos and Plateau states, respectively hence no principal officers’ position will be taken to their zones. In the case of opposition the PDP, Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that the likes of Kingsley Chinda (Rivers), Chukwuka Onyeama (Anambra), Ossai Nicholas Ossai (Delta) and Ndudi Elumelu (Delta) are in contention for the position of Minority Leader. However, there is no indication as to those going for other minority leadership positions, but it was learnt that the PDP national leadership may have to persuade the contenders above to share the positions among themselves. About the Contenders for Leader in the Senate Abdullahi Adamu Sen Abdullahi Adamu, who represents Nasarawa West Senatorial District, is a former two-term governor of Nasarawa State, who served from 1999 to 2007. He came to the Senate in 2011 and has since carved a niche for himself as an elder. Adamu has been in politics since the 1970s and he is considered as one of the few highly respected elders of the 7th, 8th and now the 9th Senate. Considered as an astute, determined and dogged politician, Adamu chaired the Senate Committee on Agriculture in both 7th and 8th Senate. Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko Sen Wamakko was the governor of Sokoto State from 2007 to 2015. He joined the Senate immediately after his second term to represent Sokoto North Senatorial District. Even though a first term senator, Wamakko became the chairman Senate Committee on Basic Education in 2015, the position he held and was said to have performed creditably. He was also one of those that backed Lawan to emerge as Senate President last Tuesday. Aliyu Abdullahi Sabi Sen Sabi first came to the Senate in 2015 to represent Niger North. A veterinary doctor, Sabi became the chairman of the 8th Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, a position he was seen by many to have distinguished himself. As a loyal APC member, Sabi campaigned vigorously for the emergence of Lawan as Senate President. He was among the few senators that started the Lawan project. He even became the spokesman of the campaign. It is believed that he would make a good Senate Leader if the party considers him, having contributed his quota to the party. Kabiru Gaya Gaya has been representing Kano South Senatorial District in the Senate since 2007. He was the chairman of the Senate Committee on Works in the 8th Senate. A former governor of Kano State, Gaya won his re-election to the Senate in February and was gunning for the position of Deputy Senate President. He campaigned to the last, but in the end, he had to drop his ambition for Omo-Agege following the APC’s decision on the matter. About the Contenders for Leader in the House Mohammed Tahir Monguno Monguno, a fifth term member of the House, is a former attorney general of Borno State. He has been representing Monguno/Marter/Nganzai Federal Constituency of Borno State. He was endorsed alongside Gbajabiamila for the position of Deputy Speaker in 2018, but lost to Yusuf Suleimon Lasun after the emergence of Yakubu Dogara who is also from the North-East. Monguno then maintained the chairmanship of his committee on agriculture, though the committee was split into two. He was also the Leader of the North-East and Borno Caucuses in the 8th House. In the absence of the then House Leader and the Deputy Leader, Monguno was called upon several times to serve as acting leader during plenary in the 8th Assembly. A loyal APC member, Monguno was singled out as being the most punctual member in the 8th Assembly and the member with the highest number of bills from the North-East. Musa Sarkin Adar Sarkin Adar, who represents Gada/Goronyo Federal Constituency of Sokoto State, is a ranking member of the House having been in the Green Chamber since 2007. An elder who has been called upon on different occasions to lead different groups of lawmakers, Sarkin Adar was chairman of the House Committees on Electoral Matters and Land Transport in the 6th and 7th Assembly. He is said to be a good team player. He was one of the staunch APC loyalists that promoted Gbajabiamila for speaker in 2015, and after their loss, he paid for it as he was not given any committee chairmanship or deputy chairmanship despite being a ranking member. In the build up to the contest for speaker this time around, he played a vital role in the emergence of Gbajabiamila. Aminu Suleiman Aminu Suleiman represents Fagge Federal Constituency of Kano State. He first came to the House in 2011 and has since distinguished himself as a fine legislator, having occupied the chairmanship of the Committee on Tertiary Education twice. Like others, Suleiman, a former labour leader, also played vital role in the emergence of Gbajabiamila as speaker as someone who is loyal to the party. It is believed that he would be someone that can protect his party’s interest just like his other colleagues above. Garba Datti Muhammad Rep Garba Datti was a member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly between 2003 and 2007. After spending four years as a state lawmaker, he moved to the House to represent Sabon Gari Federal Constituency of the state, and he has been in the Green Chamber since then. He was the Deputy Minority Leader in the 7th House, and he rejected the chairmanship of the Committee on Solid Minerals that Dogara gave him, as a loyal APC member. Datti, who is seen as a team player, is one of those considered as elders in the House, who are always consulted on issues of unity, progress and prosperity of Nigeria. Having been a principal officer before, it is believed that he can also make a good one this time around. Alhassan Ado Doguwa Doguwa has been representing Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency of Kano State since 2007. He was chairman of the House Committee on MDGs in the 7th Assembly and became the Chief Whip in 2015. By virtue of his position, he became the leader of the North-West Caucus in the House during last Assembly. He was one of the strongest promoters of Gbajabiamila for speaker in both 2015 and during the last contest. Babangida Ibrahim Ibrahim, the representative for Malumfashi/Kafur Federal Constituency of Katsina State, was chairman of the House Committee on Finance during the 8th Assembly. He was one of the most influential members in the last House and has also distinguished himself as a fine legislator. He initially gunned for the position of speaker but later dropped his ambition for Gbajabiamila. It is believed that as a team player, Ibrahim can also make a good principal officer and work harmoniously with other members of the body of principal officers. Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim Khadija became a member of the House in 2007 after her husband, a former 2-term governor of Yobe State, Bukar Abba Ibrahim, left office. She had been in the House up to 2015, but she was appointed a minister after being sworn in as a third term lawmaker. She left the federal cabinet and re-contested to return to the House. She was also one of those gunning for speaker at the initial stage, but she later dropped her ambition for Gbajabiamila. However, it must be noted that the position of the House Leader can go to either the North-West or the North-East. Sada Soli Jibiya Sada, who hails from Katsina State, is another member who has shown deep interest in the position of Leader of the House. A former member of the House who served as the Chief of Staff to former speaker and now Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Sada was the person that nominated Rep Ahmed Idris Wase for the position of Deputy Speaker last Tuesday. He is said to be enjoying the support of some key members of the House and beyond to become the House Leader. However, he has other colleagues of his to contend with, including his fellow Katsina man, Babangida Ibrahim. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that some of the contenders are enjoying the support of their governors, including Datti and Doguwa, while Aminu Suleiman is said to be backed by APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole.  Amaechi: As Saraki moves to appease PDP senators with ‘juicy’ committees Page 19 Page 20 analysis Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin