The operatives of the Lagos State Task Force, yesterday nabbed the driver of a bullion van, Bamidele Ezekiel, 46, for allegedly driving against traffic. The bullion van driver was allegedly arrested around Cappa area of Oshodi in the state. Olayinka Egbeyemi, Chairman of the agency who disclosed this on Wednesday, said that the driver of the bullion van with registration number HK 218 EKY, admitted to have driven against traffic (one-way) in a statement he made to agency. “Honestly speaking I don’t know why some enlightened people within our society just flagrantly disobey laws made to regulate free flow of traffic on our roads without any regards. It is imperative to urgently re-orientate these bullion van drivers on the need to abide by all traffic regulations and stop the habit of driving against traffic across the state He confirmed that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has directed that the arrested bullion van driver be immediately charge to court for prosecution to deter others from such illegitimate act. The driver of the bullion van, Bamidele Ezekiel, said he committed the offence with one Kehinde Babalola, a Manager of Zenith Bulk Teller, out of curiosity to deliver money to his destination on time and that he never knew that he would be caught. He said: “Yes, I drove on one-way and am appealing to the government to please tamper justice with mercy as I promised never to do such again in my life” Meanwhile, Ezekiel has been charged before Magistrate Lateef Owolabi, for driving in a direction prohibited by law (one-way), punishable under Part (III) item 27 of the Transport Sector Law of Lagos State 2018. He admitted his ‘guilt’ when the charge was read to him. However, on asking him to affirm his plea of ‘guilt’ Ezekiel changed and said he was not guilty again. While the plea of ‘Not Guilty’ was entered by the court against the defendant, the case was adjourned to the 30th day of July, 2019 for ‘Commencement of Trial’ by the Magistrate.    Bullion van driver docked for driving against traffic Fears grip motorists as LASTMA deepens enforcement Abuja drivers:  In the grip of reckless bullion van drivers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin