Maria Garba Shehu is a 27-year-old PR and Social Media Consultant and the daughter of Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari and President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors for 16 years before his appointment. She’s also an alumni of the University of Sharjah in the UAE with a BA in Communications. In this interview, she talks about unknown aspects about her dad, and more.  Daily Trust: How would you describe your dad? Maria: He is a very brilliant and hardworking man. He is the most hardworking man I know and he is so easy to love by others. DT: What do you admire the most about him? Maria: His honesty, work ethic and the way he makes sure everyone around him is always well taken care of in all ways. DT: What kind of dad is he – strict or relaxed? Maria: He honestly can be a bit of both depending on the situation and how he perceives it. Sometimes I feel it’s seasonal too. So it depends on how lucky you are as he can be pretty unpredictable (laughs). DT: What advice has he given you that has stuck with you till date? Maria: He has always told me to be honest and true to myself. DT: What’s his favourite thing to watch on TV? Maria: He enjoys watching news and sports. DT: What’s his favourite food? Maria: Although he has a great appetite and I believe he enjoys great food equally, he says his favorite food is rice with plantain and chicken. DT: What other profession/field do you think he would have excelled in? Maria: Definitely golf. He is huge on golfing and he definitely has the potential to excel in it. DT: How does he unwind? Maria: He enjoys staying in on weekends and having full family days. DT: Can you share a fond family memory related to him? Maria: Ah I have lot of those! My favorite has to be when everyone is celebrated well in the house. He’s at the forefront of those. We always go out on celebratory dinners, catch up with each other and have great laughs till the night ends. DT: What would you say is an aspect of your dad’s personality that people don’t know? Maria: He has a great sense of humor and appreciates a good laugh.  What Bande’s election as UNGA president means for Nigeria — NIA DG, Shehu Buhari mourns death of Babankowa, Ahmed Zannah: Munguno leads FG’s team  to Borno Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin