A former Deputy Senate Leader, Dr. Jonathan Silas Zwingina, in this interview, sets an agenda for the 9th National Assembly. The former parliamentarian, who represented Adamawa South Senatorial District of Adamawa State from 1999 to 2007 under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), advised the new assembly members to ensure unity among members and the two chambers, so as to maintain the sanctity of the parliament, among other issues. The leadership of the National Assembly has just been constituted. What should be the agenda of the 9th Assembly? Let me congratulate the new Senate President and the Speaker for their well-deserved election. Let me also congratulate all those who contested with them for making the process of selection credible, democratic and also with distinction. The agenda that I will propose for them will be, first and foremost, is that they must be united, both in each chamber and as well as between the chambers. There must be unity in the Senate. They must speak with one voice and have the person speaking on behalf of the Senate. He must be the only person who gives out information and the same for the House. That way, they will maintain the sanctity of the chamber. But if they are going to be talking to the public in different tongues and give different information, they will bring down the reputation of the two chambers. The second and the most important agenda will be the issue of security. There is so much insecurity and we are all disturbed, calling on the police, the military and I think we are not very fair. The truth is that the bandits and criminals have outnumbered the police by far. There are only about 400,000 policemen and out of this number, possibly 200,000 are serving as orderlies to various political and public officers or judges or following bullion vans. So, I think it is important to realize that we need to massively recruit into the Nigeria Police and ensure that we have a ratio that is commensurate with our population of 200 million people. But certainly, the current police force is not enough. So, the National Assembly, as a matter of urgency must not just move to increase the number of the police but also the quality, equipment, training and especially the surveillance and intelligence should also be effective. If there is adequate intelligence, then it is possible for the police to act appropriately and respond quickly. We also need community policing where the policemen should come from. It has the advantage of a thorough knowledge of the environment and also the advantage of being patriotic because the police cannot feel happy if the community from which they come from is continuously not at peace. When the number of policemen is increased that increment should come from community policing. The third agenda is job creation, because if you don’t create jobs, where are you going to keep all the people that are unemployed and are involved in crimes because they have to survive? Some of them have families and sometimes they resort to crime because that gives them some money. We must do something in the economy that expands the job creation effort of the government. Job creation should include the expansion of the entrepreneurship programmes of the government, in addition to major industries. Part of the ways to create jobs is also to increase local content. There is no need to allow foreigners to come to Nigeria with their capital, finance and labour. Sometimes, you see foreigners coming with their labour for jobs Nigerians should do. These are things the National Assembly should work on and bring in a legislation that should be able to increase the local content of Nigerian workers otherwise investors will come with money, finance and also labour and we will get nothing out of it. As a Senator from 1999 to 2007, what were the things that that assembly did differently that distinguished it? We were actually the beginners and I must say we didn’t have it very smooth because we had a president whose only knowledge of governance is under the military and so, we had to fight him to remind him that it was a civilian dispensation. There were many things we had to be arguing with him, among them constituency projects which he yielded. Then, he engaged in selective budget implementation. Any aspect of the budget that was increased or amended from the National Assembly, he would want, once in a while, to instruct the executive to ignore such aspect. These are some of the problems we had but our greatest advantage is that we remained united and focused. We always had executive sessions where we trashed out our differences and ensured that the spokesperson of the Senate presented what was accurate and what was detailed and we hid nothing about the operations of the National Assembly from the public. So, we did not suffer all these innuendos and insinuations of monies being wasted on the National Assembly. At the time part of our salaries was about N13,000 monthly. I think that unity helped us and one other thing that helped too was our selection. The President said the legislature should never a rubber stamp. Do you take him for his words? We should not depend on the President to decide the character of the Senate or House of Representatives or any Parliament for that matter. The President may want the National Assembly that may not be a rubber stamp but he may actually not find it very easy when it starts being independent in practice. I know most executive members want a parliament that easily agrees with them. I’m happy that the President has agreed that he is not expecting a rubber stamp parliament. What the National Assembly should do is to take him by his words and actually always remind him whenever he complains. I know that he may not mean it as a former military man even now that he is a democrat, he kept complaining that the parliament was causing problems. But since the President has said so, I congratulate him for doing that and members should remind him on his words because one day I know he will complain. How we overcame Senate crisis – Saraki PDP governors task 9th assembly to defend legislature's independence National Assembly: APC takes firm control as  Lawan, Gbajabiamila win Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin