The police have arrested 2,175 suspects for armed robbery, kidnapping, cultism and banditry since the launch of the “Operation Puff Adder,” Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, has said Adamu disclosed this when a delegation of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Nasarawa State Chapter, paid him a visit. Force spokesman, Frank Mba, in a statement in Abuja yesterday quote Adamu saying that between April 5 when the operation was launched, 63 kidnap victims were rescued unhurt by the police operatives. He said that within this period under review, 834 arms including two – rocket launchers and 19,009 live ammunition were recovered. The police boss said Oyo State recorded the highest number of recovery with 9,500 live ammunition. Adamu called for tougher legislations against kidnapping and banditry, including possible state seizure of assets linked to illicit proceeds from kidnapping and other heinous crimes. He said that if enacted, the act would be a strong disincentive to potential kidnappers and other violent criminals. The IG noted that the call has become necessary against the increasingly daring resort to these forms of crimes by criminal elements in the society. He said that the police was rejigging their strategies to ensure proactive interception of illicit weapons coming into country. According to him, a good number of the cases are already being prosecuted in courts across the country, while others are still under investigation. He commended his men for a good job and the public for their support to police and other security agencies in the country.( NAN)  IGP calls for tougher legislation against kidnapping, other crimes 60-year-old woman, others nabbed for kidnapping, rustling Police arrest 21 suspects over kidnapping, robbery Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin