The Oyo State Police command on Thursday arrested three suspected hoodlums for disrupting egungun festival in Ibadan. The State Commissioner of police, Shina Olukolu, who disclosed this at a press conference held at the command’s headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan, gave the names of the suspects as Mohammed Adewale, 20 years, Kazim Akinyemi, 22 years, and Olawale Muideen, 34 years. Olukolu noted that the Divisional Police patrol team, Idi-Aro, while monitoring the movement of the popular Alapansapa masquerade on its return home after the festival, received a distress call on the activities of hoodlums. The police boss said that before the arrival of the police, some hoodlums had slightly vandalized two Toyota cars and the hoodlums were subsequently arrested. Meanwhile, the command said it accosted six suspected armed robbers along Kishi/Igbeti road and six locally made guns were recovered from them. According to Olukolu, based on credible intelligence report from some road users who escaped from one of the robbery scenes, alerted a team of SARS operatives who were on patrol in the axis, swooped on the criminals and  arrested six of them. The suspects, he said, were later identified as Umoru Usman, Soliu Ibrahim, Usman Buba, Abubakar Muhammadu, Abu Mohammed, and Ibrahim Mohammed. The police boss said: “On June2, 2019, some members of a notorious gang who have been terrorizing members of the public and road users along Kishi/Igbeti expressway, were intercepted and arrested usually. The hoodlums attacked travelers and road users, dispossessed them of their money and other valuable goods.”  Inauguration day violence: Police arrest 29 NURTW members in Oyo Police nabbed 22 suspects for attempted murder, car theft Police arrest suspected illegal arms dealer in Ibadan Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin