The opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi state on Sunday said it has petitioned the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) over the alleged professional misconduct by the Clerk of Bauchi State House of Assembly. The APC, in a statement by its State Secretary, Alhaji Bako Hussaini, described the Clerk’s “unprofessional conduct” and lawmakers’ actions as “unethical”. He alleged that the Clerk as well as the security agents on duty were complacent in what happened on the day of the inauguration and their actions need to be investigated by relevant agencies. The party insisted that the PDP-led administration in the state used the instruments of power especially security agents to harass its members including tear-gassing them in the premises of the State House of Assembly on the inauguration day. The state’s APC scribe alleged that the security agents who were supposed to protect the lawmakers were used by the “PDP government” to teargas and forcefully remove its members from the assembly complex. Hussaini disclosed that they petitioned the NBA through its disciplinary committee to sanction the Clerk over “his act of gross misconduct and scornful approach to Nigerian Constitution and laws of Bauchi state”. “We have seen a new leaf in the history of legislative business in Nigeria where through the cover of the night, the so-called Clerk of the assembly conducted a charade and packaged fraudulent session as early as 6:00am with only eleven out of 31 members in attendance. “Our members-elect being law abiding, expected that the Clerk who claimed to be a lawyer, will ensure due process and fairness in handling the affairs of the House.” He therefore called on the APC members to be resolute and maintain their loyalty to the party adding that, erring and disloyal members will soon be sanctioned. ‘Bauchi Speaker legitimately elected,’ says Governor's aide Bauchi: A story of 1 House, 2 Speakers Bauchi gov, predecessor disagree over assembly inauguration Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin