A group, Better Nigeria Advocacy and Empowerment Initiative (BAEI), says it has begun mobilisation to tackle insecurity and reduce poverty in the country. The group also said it would work hard to bridge the religious and ethnic gap that appears to be instigating insecurity across the country. At the end of its  national conference held in Abuja on Monday, the coordinator, Comrade Imafidon Franklin, said the programme, which  brought together people from the 36 states and FCT, was to chart a way forward for a united Nigeria. Imafidon stated that things would work better if individuals did away with selfish interests and showed the desired commitment to end security challenges. “This congress is propelled by the burning desire to set the ball rolling by making a clarion call to like-minded Nigerians, young and old, who share the vision of returning the country on a better path, that it is time to work together and end the scenario where the rich continues to be richer and the poor, poorer,” he said. The coordinator told the delegates that Nigeria belongs to all, and they must reorient the minds of the youth, elite, traditional and religious leaders against issues that would portray the country in bad light. “We must be united in fighting for a better Nigeria that will realise the dreams of our founding fathers. This country that is so reach in all kinds of resources is been threatened by kidnapping, banditry, robbery and poverty because of disunity. “Government can only succeed with the full support of all Nigerians. Hiding under ethnicity, politics and religion will not do us good,” he added. At the end of the conference, leaders were elected across the six geopolitical zones of the country to ensure ‘mobilisation for a Nigeria for all’.  IBB, Abdulsalami, Atiku Meet To Save North Shettima replies Jonathan: We can dialogue with ‘ghost’ to save Nigeria Miyetti Allah vows to end cow rustling Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin