The University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, has inducted and granted an automatic houseman ship to 43 medical students of the institution. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of UATH Prof. Bissallah Ekele, declared the offer at the third induction ceremony of the institution on Saturday in Abuja. While delivering the induction lecture tittle ‘Public Perception of Medical Service in Nigeria: Time to Change the Narratives’,  Ekele noted that the offer of one year internship would encourage the graduands and ease the difficulty in getting placement in health institutions. He said the board of the hospital under the chairmanship of Dr. Sam Jaja has given approval for the 43 medical graduates to be given automatic placement for the houseman ship. He also frowned at the crises rocking the health sector and medical practice. He, however, noted that in spite of the present challenges, medical practice and practitioners had a glorious past, citing example with Dr. Samuel Manuwa, among others that made significant impact in the past. Ekele identified poor funding, poor management of limited funds, poor infrastructure, poor supervision by unit heads and consultants, poor attitude to work and unqualified professionals in the sector as some of the challenges in the health sector. “The health sector and indeed medical practice in Nigeria is presently in crises, almost everything is poor. Expectedly, the public perception of medical practice and of course the practitioners are also poor, “ he said. The chief medical director, while congratulating the new medical graduands, however, noted that they have a big role to play in upholding or imbibing the ethics of the noble profession.  Head of service laments exodus of health workers 80% of doctors seeking jobs abroad — Survey 50 % of foreign-trained Nigerian doctors fail practice test Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin