The Federal Account Allocation Committee (FAAC), on Thursday, shared N679.69 billion among the federal, state and local governments as federal allocation for the month of May. Addressing journalists at the end of the FAAC meeting held in Kano, the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Alhaji Ahmed Idris, said there was an increase of N63.5bn in the distribution of the revenue in May compared to what obtained in the previous month of April. Idris added that the excess crude account balance as at Wednesday, June 26, stood at $63.005 million. From the total N679.699bn, the summary of the distribution indicated that the federal government received N284.163bn; states received N187.605bn, and local governments received N140.997. The Accountant General also said the oil producing states have received N40.436 billion as 13% derivation revenue, while N26.498 was deducted as cost of collection, transfer and FIRS refund. Responding to the question on whether local governments funds will be deposited directly into their accounts, the AGF said “The is a Presidential committee that is working right now with specific instruction and mandate to work out modalities to ensure the autonomy of local governments and judiciary in terms of utilization of their finances. “The committee has been working and I believe it will soon submit its report appropriately, and until and unless that is done, we cannot preempt the outcome. But the question of financial autonomy and independence of the local government as well as the Judiciary is constitutional.” Meanwhile a statement by Mr Hassan Dodo, Director, Information, Ministry of Finance, said the  cost of collection/transfers/FIRS refund stood at N26.498 billion. He also said the communiqué indicated that the gross revenue available from VAT was N10.34 billion more than the N96.48 billion distributed in April. It was further disclosed that the distributed statutory gross revenue of N571.73 billion received for the month was higher than the N518.91 billion received in the previous month by N52.81 billion. According to the communiqué, revenues from Oil Royalty and Companies Income Tax (CIT) recorded significant increases, while Petroleum Profit Tax (PPT) decreased significantly. FAAC shares N610.3bn to FG, states, LGs for January FAAC crisis: Buhari directs new template on revenue remittance FAAC draws N50bn from forex equalization account to augment revenue shortfall Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin