Two armed robbery suspects, Sodiq Musa, 28, and Saidu Atiku, 34, have disclosed to police interrogators that it would take them less than four minutes to steal the brain box of a vehicle. Musa and Atiku were arrested at the weekend by operatives of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad, a unit of the Lagos State Police Command. The suspects, according to the police, were specialists in vandalizing vehicles and stealing brain boxes from them. The two men were said to have been arrested at 27, Awolowo Road, Ikeja, Lagos, with three Toyota vehicle brain boxes. A third member of the gang, identified as Adamu Ridwan, allegedly escaped with all fourth box. Musa claimed he was a graduate of Political Science before he came to Lagos in 2017 in search of greener pastures. “I worked in Lagos as a barbeque man in various hotels and events before I met Ridwan who introduced me to brain box theft and taught me all the antics and styles. “We use ‘magic stone’, that is, vehicle spark plug to break vehicle windows without attracting attention. It takes two minutes to loosen a Toyota Hiace bus brain box, while it takes four minutes to loosen a Toyota Hilux box. The spark plug reduces the noise and effects quick break of any vehicle window. We tie the plug in a handkerchief in a situation where we have multiple vehicles to work on,” he said. Musa told RRS operatives that Atiku was a security guard with a company located on the street where they were arrested. He added Atiku had called Ridwan, whom he described as the leader of the team, to come over and feast on vehicles belonging to the company, which were parked outside the company’s premises and he, Atiku, was supposed to be guarding. On the invitation, he and Ridwan, Musa confessed, set to action about 1am and broke into two Toyota Hiace and two Toyota Hilux vehicles belonging to the company, stealing their brain boxes. Consequent upon the suspect’s disclosures, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has advised car owners to be careful when parking their vehicles and are heading into hotels, night clubs and beer parlours.   Man lynched by Kaduna mob not a kidnapper - Police ‘Most cars bought from Benin stolen from Nigeria’ Police burst international car theft ring Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin