The All Progressives Congress (APC) Gubernatorial Primary Election Screening Committee for Bayelsa State has disqualified the immediate past Cross River State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Dr Briyai Oyeins Frankland, from participating in tomorrow’s primary election. The committee, however, cleared Preys Aganaba, Prince Ebitimi Amgbare, Ms Diseye Poweigha, Mr Lyon David, Prof. Ongoebi Etebu and Senator Heineken Lokpobiri. The disqualified governorship aspirant resigned his appointment as REC recently because of what he called “home pressure.” Frankland was said to have been screened out for not being a card-carrying member of the APC for up to one year. The Isa Song committee, in its report addressed to the APC National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said he was not cleared after a thorough exercise. The committee, in the report signed by all seven members, said it conducted the exercise in line with guidelines and code of conduct of the APC. It said the guideline stipulated that aspirants must have been card-carrying members of the party for up to one calendar year, must show their original credentials and in the case of multiple declarations of age must harmonise same to avoid untoward situation. “Each aspirant was asked questions relating to qualifications and conduct in line with both party constitution and election guidelines to contest for the governorship primary election on the platform of the APC. “We also asked them to produce evidence of membership of the party, voter’s card and payment of the prescribed fees as well as the original copies of their credentials for sighting. The screening committee was empowered to screen aspirants for the governorship election for Bayelsa. “Therefore, Dr Briyai Frankland was not cleared and disqualified on the ground of Section 3 Paragraph ‘L’ of the guideline for nomination of candidates,” part of the report read. APC screens Lokpobiri, 6 others for Bayelsa governorship Breaking: INEC sacks REC  'for joining APC' C/River REC resigns, joins race for Bayelsa gov’ship Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin