The coordinator of Anambra State National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), Mr. Keninde Aremu has confirmed that Anambra remains the only state in South East without a permanent Orientation camp. Aremu confirmed this to Daily Trust at its Umunya, temporary orientation camp site during the swearing- in ceremony of 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream two of corps members deployed to the state. According to the coordinator, it is a collective shame and embarrassment to the scheme, that the state does not have permanent orientation camp. “This is the only state in the whole of South East without permanent orientation camp and it is disturbing and embarrassing,” he added. Aremu also confirmed that NYSC is getting pressures from the Anglican church, the owner of the facility for it to vacate the facility. According to him, the owner of facility have delayed a number of projects for the sake of NYSC and now, they have started a construction on it. He said “National Universities Commission (NUC) has granted the Church the permission to set up a University and the university is cited here. It is quite disturbing and unfortunate because it has distorted our programmes. They have started construction of their main auditorium and by this, we do not have sizable parade ground”. On the promise of the governor, Chief Willie Obiano who said he will complete the permanent orientation camp at Umuawulu/Mbaukwu by next month, he said he has no reason to doubt him. “I believe that it will be completed next month. If the governor says it will be completed, I believe it will be completed. I think he also shares in the collective shame and embarrassments, we have here. Despite past disappointments, we believe in the governor,”he said. He also disclosed that the previous N10m he promised for the feeding of the corps members on camp has not been redeemed, saying that he is hopeful the account department was processing it along with the new promise of N10m. Anambra: Why NYSC is yet to move to permanent site at Umuawulu - NYSC coordinator NYSC to partner Anambra Goverment on health care delivery Anambra NYSC permanent camp to be ready next year — Obiano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin