The Kogi State House of Assembly has requested the state Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajanah to constitute a seven-man panel of inquiry to investigate allegations of gross misconduct against the Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba. The House made the request yesterday in a resolution issued at plenary, following the adoption of a motion by Majority Leader Abdullahi Bello-Balogun (APC-Ajaokuta) calling for investigation into the allegations levelled against the deputy governor as second step towards his impeachment. Presenting the motion, Bello-Balogun said the motion was sequel to issuance of a “Notice of Allegations” to the deputy governor two weeks ago. He explained that the deputy governor evaded service of the notice of allegations on him and also directed that none of his aides should receive any correspondence from the House of Assembly on his behalf. Bello-Balogun said that the prayers calling for investigation in the motion were in line with Section 188(3) that the house should resolve by motion supported by not less than two-third of members to request the chief judge to set up the seven-man panel to investigate the allegations. According to him,  the deputy governor’s open vilification of Governor Yahaya Bello and the Kogi State Government, as well as the alleged discrete and open support for candidates of the opposition parties during the presidential, national and state assembly elections in February and March, this year,  amounted to gross misconduct. Seconding the motion, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Mohammed (APC-Ankpa) said the situation as worrisome and described the motion as appropriate. Mohammed said that the seven- man committee should be made up of persons of impeccable character as outlined in the Nigerian Constitution. Ruling on the motion, the Speaker, Prince Matthew Kolawole said questions as to ascertain the number of members who supported the adoption of the motion was 19 and therefore more than the 17 members required. Kolawole, therefore, directed the house to communicate the chief judge to within seven days constitute a panel to investigate the deputy governor. Kogi Assembly begins impeachment move against deputy governor Intrigues as Taraba deputy governor faces impeachment Enugu Dep Gov impeached Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin