The new Minister of Communications, Dr. Ali Isa Pantami, has urged Directors, Heads of agencies and staff under the Ministry to uphold the tenets of team spirit in the discharge of their duties in order to achieve the Ministry’s mandate under the current administration. Dr Pantami disclosed this during his assumption of duty at the Ministry’s Headquarters, Abuja yesterday. The Minister pointed out that Permanent Secretary Mr. Musa Istifanus and himself could deliver the mandate of the Ministry alone and there was the need for cooperation. “The responsibility is not mine alone and I belief the Permanent Secretary and I cannot do it alone. We must come together as brothers and sisters to deliver our mandate’’, he said. He added: “If we do what is right history would be very kind to us, if we betray the trust given to us definitely history is not going to be kind to us, because of this my message to everyone seated here, is to sit properly and ensure that the work is done, and the work must be done.’’ Pantami reiterated that, the Ministry and its agencies must work as a team and he would not allow any division to take place. “We must be united because all of us are Nigerians and Nigerians must be treated equally’’, he warned. He urged the agencies to work with the mandate that established them and noted the role the Ministry should play as supervisory Ministry, adding that each and everyone in the Ministry would be motivated to deliver on the mandate. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications, Mr. Musa Istifanus stated that the Ministry could help government to pull out 50 million people out of 100 million people living below the poverty line within 36 months and to impact on the lives of those living in Nigerian villages. According to him, “we are doing away with physical files and adopting electronic files by the end of this October, the Ministry would no longer be carrying physical files. Any letters coming to the Ministry would be scan and responded  within 48 hours, this will serve as example for other Ministries to follow.’’ We must submit budget by September, minister tells ministry officials page 6 2019 polls:  NITDA DG counsels INEC on credible elections Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin