The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) has said Nigeria must deploy competent experts to negotiate the relevant protocols that will soon follow as part of the processes to the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) trade policy. CILT said the next implementation stage is critical and if Nigeria failed to constitute a capable team with the right negotiating skills and tools, it will lose out of the numerous benefits the AfCFTA holds for the country. Mr. Raynolds Shodeinde, Assistant Director, Administration, CILT, told our correspondent in an interview in Abuja that, if Nigeria doesn’t negotiate properly it might end up a dumping ground for light weapons, dangerous goods and a fertile ground for human trafficking. Mr. Shodeinde also recommended other actions Nigeria needed to take to benefit from the trade agreement. According to him, “Nigeria must strengthen the ease of doing business initiative and create enabling environment for investors – local and international investors and those in the informal sector.” He also said Nigeria must go into subsequent negotiations with clear head, focus and clarity of purpose in order to minimize the impact of possible risks and effect but maximize the positive effect that will emerge from the AfCFTA. “Our negotiators must show high level of economic expertise and sagacity. Because in every trade agreement, there are positive and negative sides. Depending on how you negotiate.  We must minimize everything that will put us at a disadvantaged position,” he said. Also commenting, Mr Alex Okosun, Abuja Branch Chairman of CILT, advised the president to place qualified people in critical areas of the economy if we must survive the AfCFTA. The rest of Africa wouldn’t wait for our appointees to understand the issues, they will move on to our detriment so we must appoint people who are fit for the purpose. He noted that “if we had professionals advising the president, we would have signed the AfCTA long time ago. We would have signed and negotiated favorable terms for domestication.” Also commenting, Mr. Adekunle Adegbuwagun, CILT Admin Officer, said data is going to be a very important tool to use on the negotiation table. What AfCFTA can bring to Nigeria AfCFTA: ‘FG should address structural issues for Nigeria to benefit from agreement’ As AfCFTA kicks off Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin