After a series of palliative works, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has finally announced the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, for major repairs on the runway. Daily Trust on Sunday examines why the shutdown has become inevitable, as well as its implication.  The decision to shut down the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, has, no doubt come at a great cost to stakeholders – airport managers, airline operators and passengers. Experts said it was a hard decision to take, but it’s in the interest of the safety of users. The move to close the airport for runway repairs, due to several challenges which posed serious danger to flight operations, had been in the offing for many years. Most importantly, the runway has been experiencing failures for the past four years, necessitating a series of palliative work. On May 2018, a team of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the FAAN visited the airport to assess the extent of work that needed to be done to improve flight operations. It was during the inspection that the director-general of the NCAA, Captain Mukhtar Usman, hinted that plans were underway to give Enugu the Abuja airport treatment, referring to the six-week shutdown of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja in 2016, for the repair of the runway. On May 17, 2019, before the dissolution of the last cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika disclosed that the Federal Government had no option than to shut down the airport, saying it was no longer safe for flight operations. Apart from the failing runway, the airport is also faced with several encumbrances that threaten safety. The FAAN held a series of meeting with the Enugu State Government towards removing some of the encumbrances, like the Orie Emene market, a free trade zone, and the transmission mast belonging to the State Broadcasting Corporation, which are said to obstruct the landing and navigational aids. Already, the government has procured a landing instrument and airfield lighting system. Installation has, however, been stalled due to the above mentioned challenges. Sirika said, “As you approach Enugu, there is a market that has an abattoir, which attracts birds. At the end of the runway, you have a free trade zone. The state government kept promising that they would remove all these challenges. “That market must move two to three kilometers away. It will not harm the people. We have told the state government to remove the trade zone, the market and the state radio mast.’’ No sooner did Sirika make that statement than South-East governors kicked and queried the timing of the closure. But after several meetings with Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the FAAN finally announced the closure of the airport, which took effect yesterday, Saturday 24. “This move is aimed at resolving the existing safety concerns on flight operations. A date to reopen the runway will be communicated in due course,” Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu of the FAAN said in a statement. Sources told our correspondent that contractors who would immediately commence work at the airport have been mobilised ahead of the closure. But the South-East Governors Forum still kicked against the closure and pleaded for the Federal Government to extend it till the end of October to enable them make adequate arrangements for airport users in the zone. The governors said they had written to the president to intervene, saying “the airport was closed without giving us any time to make adequate security arrangement for the convenience of people and visitors coming into the zone.” In a letter by the chairman of the Forum, David Umahi, who is also the governor of Ebonyi State, the governors called on the president to direct the FAAN and Ministry of Aviation to provide immediate palliatives in the form of transportation, with armed escorts and helicopter services to prospective passengers from alternative airports that connect the zone. But the FAAN insists that the closure was long overdue. The spokesperson of the authority told our correspondent that the shutdown would go on as planned despite the action of South-East governors. Our correspondent learnt that airlines have concluded plans to increase flights to airports close to Enugu, namely, the Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri in Imo State and the Asaba Airport, Delta State. Similarly, the Osubi airstrip, also in Delta, can accommodate smaller aircraft. The Enugu airport serves nearby cities, including Onitsha, Nnewi, Awka, Abakaliki, Okigwe, Afikpo, Ugep, Orlu, Idah. Reacting to the closure, stakeholders called for a comprehensive plan to cushion the effect on users as was the case in Abuja three years ago. Air Peace, however, commended the Federal Government for the decision to close the airport to allow a proper repair and maintenance. The chairman and chief executive officer of the airline, Mr. Allen Onyema, said the carrier fully supported the decision, saying it’s the safest thing to do to put the airport back to shape. He said: “Though the decision will affect travellers, and of course, the airline, we place the safety of the flying public, our crew and equipment above any commercial benefit. “The government should go all out to put everything in place within the period of the closure. That would make the airport rank among the best international airports in the country. We plead with the Federal Government to make the airport a 24-hour flight facility by improving the night landing infrastructure.’’ Aviation analysts, including Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the president of Aviation Roundtable, also applauded the decision by the Federal Government, saying that was the safest thing to do. They, however, advised that alternative transportation system, with necessary security as was done in Abuja, should be put in place. Owing to the closure, business activities are practically crippled. Apart from airline operators and travellers, shop owners, airport cab operators and food vendors are affected. Speaking to Daily Trust on Sunday, a shop owner at the airport, Mrs Eunice Ani said, “Let them do the repairs once and for all so that it will look like a real international airport. After the repairs we can come back to do our business.” She, however, lamented that the situation would affect their goods as some of them would get spoilt or expire. A businessman who travels through the airport, Mr. Samuel Obi, told our correspondent that he found the diversion of passengers to Asaba and Imo airports very disturbing because one is exposed to more risks, especially these days of insecurity in the country. Mr Obi, who bought Air Peace ticket said: “The closure of the airport is affecting me as a person; it is a big inconvenience. I have to travel to Asaba. To go by road is not even safe because the roads are not okay. If the roads were good we could manage, but they are not. “Also think of the time and money factors. I am supposed to leave here (Enugu) by 2pm, but now, I have to leave at 7am to drive four hours from Enugu to Asaba before  boarding the flight. I spend more money in buying fuel, and all that.” Another traveller, a lawyer who said he was travelling to attend a national conference of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in Lagos, told our correspondent that he was at the airport to demand the refund of his money. Air Peace had sent text messages to its passengers who bought flight tickets in advance to come for a refund. The lawyer, who didn’t disclose his identity, said, “I came for a refund, but they said I should apply. I applied but they said it would take 21 days, which is very bad. I asked whether they would pay me interest, but rather than answer my question or give me my money, they were laughing. “Besides, we are exposed to risk. How do I travel on road? From here to Asaba is not less than three hours? If you reach Asaba, how many hours do you still need to get to Lagos?” A Catholic Rev Sister, who didn’t give her name, also said, “They sent us an email address to contact them if we wanted to re-book. I am here for a refund, but they are speaking grammar. And I am not finding it easy. In fact, let them close down the airport permanently instead of allowing people to go through these problems,” she said. An official of Air Peace who didn’t disclose his name because he could not speak to the press, however, said, “The volume of patronage has reduced but we are channeling passengers through Asaba and Owerri. “Definitely, the closure of the airport is affecting our business adversely because no plane is landing and taking off.” When contacted, officials of the FAAN directed our correspondent to write a letter to their head office, claiming that they were not authorised to speak to journalists. As at the time of filing this report on Friday evening, no construction company was seen at the airport to commence the proposed repairs. “We don’t even know when the construction company would come. We don’t even know the name of the company,” a worker at the airport said. JUST IN: Finally, FG shuts Enugu Airport Airlines adjust Enugu flights over runway repair Finally, FG shuts Enugu airport Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin