The Conference of Speakers of the 36 state Houses of Assembly has called for synergy among all stakeholders to fully implement the autonomy for the state legislative arms. The conference noted that one year after President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the constitutional amendment granting autonomy to the state legislature and judiciary, it was yet to be implemented by most State Assemblies. Chairman of the Conference and Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa stated this today at the Roundtable with Speakers of state assemblies organized by the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS). Represented by his Deputy and Speaker of Taraba State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Abel Peter Diah, Obasa said efforts must be intensified by all stakeholders for effective implementation of the constitutional provision to strengthen democracy. Diah, who spoke with newsmen on the sidelines of the retreat, said the state legislature had become an independent body with the autonomy granted to it by the constitution. He noted that stakeholders, especially the governors, needed not wait for any executive order from the President to implement the provision. He said: “The President has already assented to that particular alteration. We are an independent body. What we are actually appealing for is for stakeholders – the governors, the judiciary, the legislators to come to a roundtable without necessarily allowing Mr. President to invoke any executive order in implementing this constitutional provision. “The practice we have right now is that most of the houses of assembly are acting in violation of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “So, it is also not correct to say that any House of Assembly is autonomous without applying the provision signed by the President.” Director-General of NILDS, Prof. Abubakar Sulaiman said the autonomy granted the state assembles had “considerable implication on good governance, particularly with regards to accountability and transparency.” “It means that going forward, you would be better positioned to recruit capable and competent staff for the Assembly, determine financial resources and decide on the internal governance and organization of the Assembly,” he said.   Buhari constitutes panel on autonomy of state legislature, judiciary Buhari constitutes panel on state legislature, judiciary autonomy Speakers meet over implementation of assembly’s financial autonomy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin