Although oil industry activities are executed predominantly in the southern part of the country and the headquarters of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) is located in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, in this report, Daily Trust Saturday revisits the interventions of the agency in the North-East, North Central and North-West zones of the country On Monday, August 26, NCDMB launched the training of 1,000 youths in Kano on phone hardware repairs, software installation and entrepreneurship development. The programme is designed to develop a pool of local talents for assembly of GSM phones and development of software applications that are currently largely import dependent. In July, NCDMB completed the training of 107 internally displaced persons (IDPs) under the Fair Chance Initiative (FCI) as part of efforts to support the rebuilding of the North East region, which had been impacted negatively by Boko Haram insurgency. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The beneficiaries of the training were selected from Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States and were trained on plumbing, electrical, carpentry, GSM phone repair, digital soft skills, soap making and bead making. Wabote explained: “We are partnering with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and other bodies to attach the trainees to established companies, to enable them perfect their crafts, learn the business side of their trades and undergo mentoring.” The training is just an aspect of the board’s larger intervention in the North-East, which includes the NCDMB Neighbourhood Project, where the board is constructing 90 model homes in settlements that were previously destroyed in Borno State, using the Down2Earth model of applying hydraulically compressed clay bricks for home construction. In 2018, NCDMB trained 250 science teachers drawn from Kastina State secondary schools. The training helped to refresh the teachers’ knowledge to enable them impact the right knowledge to their students. Soon after Engr. Wabote assumed office at NCDMB on November 1, 2016. One of his first steps was to put in place the Nigerian Content 10-Year Road Map. This strategy document targets to increase Nigerian Content performance from 28 percent to 70 percent by 2027, create 300, 000 jobs from industry activities and retain US$14bn in-country out of the US$20bn annual industry spend. The 10-Year-Road Map has five pillars namely: Technical Capability Development, Compliance and Enforcement, Enabling Business Environment, Organisation Capability and Sectorial and Regional Market Linkage. It also has four enablers and they are Funding, Regulatory Environment, Collaboration and Stakeholders Engagement and Research and Development. What has followed since then has been a flurry of strategic developments and achievements. Three weeks ago the board signed contracts with seven companies for various construction works at the Bayelsa and Cross River Oil and Gas Park and the sand filling and fencing of the Oil and Gas Park site at Ikwe, Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The board also inaugurated Community Interface Committees (CIC) for the first two pilot parks. The committee will liaise between the communities, the contractors and the board and promote community participation, cordial relationship and compliance with the community content elements of the NOGaPS project. The success of the parks has led the Imo, Edo and Rivers state governors to invite the board to replicate the NOGaPS model in their states. Still on technical capability, the board is spearheading the Project 100 initiative. Already, 60 oil and gas start-ups have been identified and the board is sponsoring the deployment of special interventions for their incubation, maturation and growth into world class service companies. This intervention would include capacity building, funding and access to market. Another major achievement of the board is the provision of equity investment to catalyse the establishment of 5,000barrels per day modular refinery by Waltersmith Refining & Petrochemical Company Limited in Ibigwe, Imo State and in the12,000barrels per day Hydroskimming Modular refinery by Azikel Petroleum Limited at Obunagha, Gbarain, Bayelsa State. The Waltersmith refinery would be completed in May 2020 while the Azikel Refinery would be completed in 2021. It would produce about 1.3million litres of premium motor spirit, diesel, kerosene, cooking gas and a small percentage of heavy fuel oil.  Both modular refinery projects have huge prospects for jobs creation, value retention, petroleum products availability and the development of in-country capability. On the second pillar, Compliance and Enforcement, Wabote said the board had deployed chartered accounting firms to carry out forensic audit of Nigerian Content Development Fund (NCDF) remittances. Section 104 of the Nigerian Content Act mandates that one percent of the value of contracts awarded in the upstream section of the oil and gas industry must be remitted to the NCD Fund. He stated that this audit began in November 2018 and have revealed huge amounts of non-remittances from operating and service companies. He added: “At the moment, some companies have owned up to their indebtedness and have started addressing their infractions. On the other hand, a few companies have remained recalcitrant. We have concluded plans to hand over such companies to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for prosecution. Our doors are open to companies that want to come up with structured payment plans, but we would not entertain pleas to write off any indebtedness.” One of the impactful changes Wabote brought to the industry is the introduction of the Service Level Agreements (SLAs) which has addressed the perennial cancer of long contracting cycle in the oil and gas industry, NCDMB initiated the agreement and has signing the SLAs with the Nigeria LNG, International Operating Companies under the aegis of the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) and Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG). He asserted that the SLA has shortened the NCDMB interface on the tendering cycle in the Oil and Gas Industry from 36 months to 9 nine months. It also enhanced broad compliance with the requirements of the Nigerian Content Act and led to significant reduction in the unit cost of oil production in Nigeria. NCDMB also addressed the challenge of funding facing many Nigerian service companies, as he said a total of US$160m out of the US$200m NCI Fund has so far been given out. “The Bank of Industry is the custodian and administrator of the NCI Fund and we are working closely to monitor the beneficiaries and ensure utilization of the loans for the stated purposes and repayment when due,” he added. The achievements of the NCDMB have encouraged stakeholders to increase the clamour for the extension of the Nigerian Content Act to other critical sectors of the economy like Power, Construction and Information Communication Technology. Hopefully, the 9th Assembly will concluded the proposed amendment of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content (NOGICD) Act and extend it to the desired sectors. Already, the federal government has commenced the process with the the Presidential Executive Orders 03 and 05, which focusses on Local Content in procurement by MDA and Science and Technology. Under Wabote, NCDMB has shown that Nigerian Content is for all Nigerians and the mandate of the agency is not restricted to the oil producing states. This disposition is commendable and worthy of emulation by other agencies of government.  NCDMB to train 1,000 Kano youths on phone repairs, software installation NCDMB, Danvic secures $1.2m seismic software for 6 varsities Bayelsa trains 250 teachers on proficiency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin