The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), yesterday, said there are no political prisoners in Nigeria. BMO said such allegation was false because it could not be substantiated. In a statement signed by BMO Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju, and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, it said the claim existed only in the imagination of the PDP and its National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. The statement read in part: “It is laughable that the chairman of what is supposed to be Nigeria’s main opposition party could so glibly suggest that President Buhari is holding political prisoners. “If there is any comment that can be tagged irresponsible, this is it. It shows that Secondus has little or no clue on who a political prisoner is. Or maybe he is just being mischievous, as opposition elements have been after the massive loss their presidential candidate suffered in the February 23, 2019, election. “We are mindful of the fact that there is a handful of high-profile individuals in lawful custody, but they all have cases in court that have nothing to do with their political stand which determines whether someone is being held for purely political reasons “We need to also inform the PDP chairman that there is an international convention that stipulates that those deprived of their personal liberty for terrorist crimes shall not be considered political prisoners if they are being prosecuted for such crimes, according to national legislation. “So how could the PDP national chairman on this basis accuse the Buhari administration of refusing to release those he claimed are political prisoners, when no one in lawful custody qualifies to be described as such?” the group asked. BMO also dismissed the coalition of 51 Civil Society Organisations (CSO) which accused the government of restricting the civil space to groups on a fund raising drive. “Just like PDP, these CSOs are just out to play to the gallery with their blanket allegations against the Buhari administration. “Aside from name-checking Omoyele Sowore, the convener of the RevolutionNow protests, they could not come up with any other example to back up their claims that the government had been muzzling dissenting views and other grave allegations against the Buhari-led administration,” the group said.  Be mindful of your comments on President Buhari–BMO cautions Secondus Come to terms with your loss, Atiku urged Buhari’s trip has no legal incident, BMO tells PDP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin