The Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC), in conjunction with its Meter Asset Provider (MAP), Mojec International, yesterday rolled out 450,000 pre-paid meters for Shomolu residents in Lagos State. At a customer engagement and sensitization forum in Lagos where the company made this disclosure, its company’s Chief Operating Officer, Folake Soetan, said the essence of the forum was to engage customers under its network about the MAP scheme, which was the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)’s initiative to close the metering gap in the country. “Currently, a lot of our customers are particular about the service. They want to be sure that the bills that they get are actually real, meaning that the bills must match what they consumed and the best way to make that happen is to have a metering device. “The metering programme started in May and, since then, we have started rolling out meters to our customers within our network. However, we realized that a lot of people still don’t still know how to access the meters, which explains why we have to come to Shomolu with Mojec International, our MAP, to explain to the residents the process and show them how to obtain their meters,” Shoetan said. She explained that in order to make meter acquisition easy for the customers, Mojec International had made arrangements with a number of banks on how they can make payments over a period of time. “People that do not have the fund now can take a soft loan from banks and once payment is made, customers’ meters will be installed within 10 working days. Already about 15,000 customers have started the process under the Ikeja Electric network and about 3,000 customers have been metered”, she stated She said Ikeja Electric had done a lot to improve supplies to the consumers on its network over the last 12 months, stressing that with the launch of MAP, metering gap that had been in existence for a very long time would be bridged. The Chief Executive Officer, Mojec International, Chantelle Abdul, explained that the company was fully prepared to meter over 450,000 customers in the Shomolu community.  67% AEDC customers yet to be metered – NERC Electricity: Over 50% customers unmetered 4yrs after privatisation Ikeja Electric rolls out prepaid meters for Ikorodu customers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin