The Kano State Commissioner Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, yesterday, tendered 14 documents before the governorship election petitions tribunal sitting in Kano. The documents were part of the 61 election materials requested by the petitioners, PDP and its governorship candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf. The commissioner who was represented by the officer in charge of legal and prosecution of the command, SP Sunday Ekwe, tendered 14 documents, which were carbonated copies of polling units’ election results given as police copies during the election. However, counsels to the respondents, INEC and APC, objected to the admissibility of the documents. It would be recalled that a subpoena duces tecum was served on the CP in which the tribunal summoned him to produce 61 documents, following which the representative of the police sought for time to ascertain what they had in possession. Meanwhile, in the resumed hearing of the petition, five out of the eight debated witnesses have so far given their testimonies before the tribunal. One of the eight star witnesses was the state Chairman of the PDP, Alhaji Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi, who told the tribunal that his party was leading in the March 9, election, including at the contentious Gama Ward, saying there was no need for a re-run. In his cross examination, Counsel to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Aliyu Umar (SAN), asked the PDP chairman whether he was aware that one of the reasons given by INEC for cancelling Gama Ward’s result was because the result was carted away. In his response, Bichi said, “That was what they said, but my agents told me that the results were intact.” Others who were cross-examined were Dr. Umar Tanko Yakasai who was the Nasarawa Local Government Area collation agent of PDP during the election; Dr Yunusa Adamu Dangwani, who was the DG campaign of the PDP governorship candidate; one Mr. Samuel Odota, who was an analyst consulted by Abba Kabir Yusuf to analyse the result; and Sulaiman Mustapha Mainasa, who was the Gama Ward returning agent of the PDP. Counsel to PDP, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), applied for adjournment to enable the petitioners make some corrections in order to produce other witnesses and respond to a counter affidavit filed by the respondents. The presiding Judge, Justice Halima S. Muhammad, granted the application and adjourned to Tuesday (today) for continuation of hearing.  A/Ibom: Umana gets nod to bring more witnesses, documents Kano gov’ship: Court summons CP, INEC Ekiti decides: Witnesses allege irregularities in governorship election Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin