The chairman, governing board of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) and former Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Babangida Nguroje, has expressed commitment of the host communities of Mambilla Plateau to create the right environment for the take-off of the 3050 megawatts (MW) Mambilla hydropower project. Nguroje, who also hails from Mambilla, Taraba State, said the host community fully understands the importance of the full take-off of the hydro project which will help in addressing the challenges in the Nigerian power sector and create jobs and economic fortunes for the state. He said the host community has yearned for the actualisation of the project for years and would provide the necessary support to both the Federal Government and the Chinese experts. He expressed satisfaction that the visitation of the Chinese experts to the project site served as a morale booster and re-affirment of the commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to ensure that the project comes to fruition. He therefore urged all stakeholders, irrespective of political and religious divides, to provide the Chinese experts and the Nigerian government the desired support to embark on the Mambilla hydropower project which has been in the works for over 35 years. “We are happy over this visitation of the Chinese experts. We commend the Federal Government and assure them that the host community will provide the necessary support they need to embark on this all important project. “I want to assure everyone that the host community is very anxious to receive President Muhammadu Buhari for the inauguration of the Mambilla hydropower project,” Nguroje said. Host community pledges support for Mambilla hydro project Mambilla hydropower ‘ll boost employment - Nguroje Nigeria seeks China’s support for Mambilla power project takeoff Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin