By Ojoma Akor  Stanbic IBTC a member of the Standard Bank Group has advised its employees to pay more attention to their mental health, and engage in healthy lifestyle and habits. Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Yinka Sanni, gave the advice during this year’s edition of the bank’s Employee Health and Wellness week. The health and wellness week marked the culmination of activities of the bank’s annual health week programme, designed to educate and enlighten the company’s employees and the public on healthy living and wellness. The theme of this year’s celebration is ‘Healthy Mind, Healthy Body.’ He stressed the need to constantly challenge oneself and reach out to people for support. He said: “You should challenge yourself to do more, learn new skills, look out for innovative and creative ways of doing things, and also learn to manage pressure and extend a helping hand to others. There is always somebody that can do with a helping hand around you if you are attentive.” The Stanbic Group boss also enjoined  its staff to take breaks to refresh while  pursuing excellence. “We should take time out to refresh. Be sure to take a 10 day break this year. We should also learn to practice excellence and bring out our very best. I also counsel that we should live in the present”, he added. Olufunke Amobi, Country Head, Human Capital, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, said that the company strongly pursues a policy of promoting a healthy lifestyle amongst its staff members. She stated that the health fair was organized to make the bank’s staff more conscious about adopting healthier lifestyle choices. She said: “This health fair is particularly very important to us because the health and wellness of our staff has a direct correlation with our vision, mission and our existence as an organisation.” The 2019 Health and Wellness Week was held across the cities of Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt and IIorin.  page 24 extra Stanbic IBTC finances acquisition of BRT buses in Lagos Small businesses unaware of FG’s interventions - Osibanjo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin