Insecurity was one of the many issues campaigned to solve in his 2015 elections. Four years on, it remains unresolved, with President Muhammadu Buhari carrying a number of them over to his current tenure. Though Nigeria has been plagued by many crises, it still forges ahead. From the decade-old Boko Haram insurgency, to the latest face-off between the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) and the police, one crisis seems to make way for another, darkening the landscape. With the coming to power of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015, there was hope that the insurgency and criminality would subside, but he has ‘carried over’ – much like academic deficiencies – a number of security threats to this, his send term, prompting the following prognosis. Just as former head of state General Abdulsalami Abubakar and other top-notch statesmen were in Minna, Niger State, last Monday trying to find remedies to the continuous security threat of Boko Haram, the insurgents mauled 65 people and injured others in Nganzai Local Government Area of Borno State while returning from a funeral. According to reports, the attack was launched by fighters of factional Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) who operate along the shores of the Lake Chad. General Abubakar expressed concern that Nigeria was going through a phase of growing tension and resentment. He was speaking a roundtable put together by Abdulsalami Abubakar Institute for Peace and Sustainable Development. There, a former Chief of Defense Staff, retired General Martin Luther Agwai, who had peace keeping experiences in Sierra Leone and Darfur, Sudan, explained that the military only creates enabling environment for dialogue to take place. But from the beginning of this year alone, over 264 civilians were killed and 116 injured in Boko Haram attacks in three states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. In the same period, over 29 soldiers were killed and 23 others injured. These are only reported, or known casualties. United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr Edward Kallon, said Boko Haram terrorists killed over 27,000 civilians since the conflict started in 2009. The insurgency is still ongoing. Kidnapping for ransom has become widespread, with 394 victims across 27 states in the last seven months. Kidnappers have in the process received huge sums of money. However, one of the high-profile incidents, that of the Magajin Garin Daura in Katsina State, Alhaji Musa Umar Uba at his residence, saw him spend two months in captivity, from May 1 to July 2, 2019. A retired Customs officer, the traditional title-holder is married to Hajiya Biliki, a niece to President Muhammadu Buhari. In Kwara State, four Turks kidnapped at Gwugwu in Edu Local Government but regained freedom few days after. The state commissioner of Police, Kayode Egbetokun, said the expatriates were rescued with the efforts of the local vigilante group. On April 29, 2019, the Chairman, Universal Basic Education Commission, (UBEC), Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, with his daughter, were kidnapped along Kaduna-Abuja Highway. Unfortunately, his driver was killed in the process of the abduction. In Cross River State, a medical doctor, Marcus Inyama was released after two weeks kidnappers’ captivity. The incident led to a protest by some medical officers, resident doctors and consultants to the state House of Assembly and governor’s office. They complained that 14 of their members and family members have been kidnapped in four years. Also, in May, a staff of Toto LGA in Nasarawa State, Mohammad Shuaibu, was killed and his wife kidnapped for ransom of N2million in criminality that has become a booming business. Incidents continue to happen, fast and furiously, on almost a daily basis. Another crime that has been of concern is banditry. Bandits are having a field day in the north-west. In some instances, villages are wiped out in Zamfara State. In the process, many people deserted their villages for fear of bandits and cattle-rustlers. However, some residents in six Zamfara communities recently returned, following improved security after deserting their abodes for long. They are those of Lilo, Fura Girke, Kowha, Kundumau,Yargeba and Bundugel. Unfortunately, 771 persons were killed in seven months, affecting 5 states of Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, Zamfara and Niger.  But the killings have not stopped, as suspected armed bandits last week attacked four villages of Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State and killed three persons and kidnapped six others. The villages are Shingi, Sabon Garin Wagini, Hayin Nuhu and Dantudun Wagini. Also, in Kebbi State, a 65-year-old businessman, Alhaji Yusuf Garkar-Bore was killed and his daughter-in-law, abducted. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu and 10 state governors met in Katsina with repentant cattle rustlers and bandits, volunteers known as Yan Sakai. Also present were officials of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria. The governors were those of Plateau, Taraba, Niger, Kaduna, Kano, Jigawa, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi and Katsina states. The issue remains unresolved. Carried over into President Buhari’s second tenure is the herder/farmer clash especially in the Middle-Belt area of the country. It created a lot of friction between the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom and the Presidency leading to the return of the governor to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Recently, the issue snowballed into the South-East and South-West regions when the Presidency announced its intention to introduce the Ruga settlements. The system, which allowed a ranching system, was condemned across many states. It is also creating a situation where fear-mongers are igniting tension directed at innocent herdsmen, and tagging any criminal of Fulani extraction a ‘Fulani herdsman’, demonizing the occupation in a blanket manner. The South-East Governors’ Forum meeting in Enugu last week said it will set up a committee and a centre for South-East Integrated Security Monitoring/Intelligence Gathering to be located in Enugu. Apparently to check influx of Fulani herders, the governors said the forest guards would be established in five states of the zone, while roads would be cleared up to 50 metres into the bush to enable people have a clear view of roads ahead. Chairman of the forum and Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, reaffirmed the forum’s position that the zone had no land for the suspended Ruga programme of the Federal Government. The herder/farmer problem had claimed 138 farmers and 20 herders since January, 2019. Also, 81 cows have been killed and 460 rustled in the process. On the whole, 13 states are affected in the crisis, namely Ogun, Delta, Enugu, Plateau, Nasarawa, Kogi, Anambra, Ekiti, Kaduna, Adamawa, Imo, Taraba and Benue. This is also ongoing. The clashes between members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) have become a source of worry as their protests were carried into Abuja, the federal capital city leading to deaths and destruction of property. On Monday, July 22, 2019, a Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of Operations in the FCT, Usman A.K Umar and an NYSC member serving at Channels TV, Precious Owolabi, were killed. The Shiites claimed that 11 of its members were also killed. The next day, the protesters took to the streets around Banex Plaza in Abuja, but the police dispersed them. They claimed 2 members were killed in that incident. On July 26, a judicial pronouncement in Abuja proscribed the group and termed “subversive element and shall be brought to justice within the context of the Terrorism Act.” Views askew However, the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, at his 50th priestly ordination and the launch of a book in his honour ‘Thy Will Be Done: A Portrait of John Cardinal Onaiyekan’ in Abuja, said the proscription of the group was in error. According to him, the proscription portrays Nigeria as a country where government can wake up and get a court order from nowhere that a particular religious group is proscribed. “If we allow that to go, it means Catholics and my own religion too can be proscribed any day by any government which manages to get any judge to issue an ex-parte or non-ex-parte order,” he said. He stressed that the Shiite sect had the right to protest the continued incarceration of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim Zakzaky, noting that if he was detained unjustly, it would be difficult to prevent Catholic faithful from protesting against his incarceration. A former Director of Military Intelligence, retired Brigadier-General Abubakar Sa’ad said the greatest corruption in the counter-insurgency war in the northeast is in the inflation of manpower being deployed. This, he said, has negatively affected the counter-insurgency war and exacerbating insecurity in the country. He spoke in an interview on Friday with Daily Trust Saturday while analyzing major security challenges in the country and how the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has fared in tackling them. Sa’ad said, “One thing we need to confirm and put everything at rest in the northeast is the issue of strength, what exactly is the manpower strength in the northeast. That is the greatest fraud that is being perpetuated, we have bogus divisions, we have bogus brigades, we have bogus battalions and we have bogus task force brigades. You put people together, who are less than a battalion and call them a brigade, on paper all the indents is that of a brigade, but its less than a battalion.”  “The unfortunate thing is that Boko Haram knows, ragtag Boko Haram has routed such so-called task force brigades; how can a brigade be routed by Boko Haram or ISWAP if it’s truly a brigade?” Sa’ad said if there is one thing the government must do is to ensure that they determine the real strength of the personnel in the northeast. He said a former minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali set up a committee to determine the strength of the personnel in the northeast, asking, ‘what happened to the report of that committee?’ The former intelligence officer said the government should block corruption within the military, going through the chain at command levels. According to him, these bogus strength funds are released, but do not match troops on the ground, and people are skimming something off. He also said government should provide the necessary materials for troops to work, adding that ‘Nigeria has fantastic soldiers’. Sa’ad noted that when the government said that Boko Haram has been technically defeated, it did not set the parameters for such victory. “What exactly is victory, especially in an asymmetric war?” he asked. “So when you say they are technically defeated, the parameter for that was not defined. That is why it is easy to criticize the government whenever there is an attack.” He emphasized the importance of horizon-scanning and scenario-planning when planning deployment and strategy in fighting insurgents. “We are currently using tactics meant for conventional warfare for asymmetric warfare. I would have preferred a concentration of forces that are highly mobile and potent,” Sa’ad pointed out. Recently, a former Director General (DG), Department of State Services (DSS), Afakriya Gadzama, at the National Institute of Security Studies (NISS), Distinguished Lecture tagged ‘Contemporary Security Challenges and the Survival of the Nigerian State’ expressed concern whereby security agencies continue to give the impression that they are on top of the situation, whilst in reality, the security threats are difficult for them to tackle. He also said there is also the problem of leadership competence as a result of the politics of appointments in many security organizations. He noted that the security challenges in the last couple of years can be attributed to the absence of good governance, elite insensitivity and social injustice. ‘Why security threats happen’ The chairman of the Abuja chapter of American Society for Industrial Security (ASIS) International, Kabiru Adamu has said weakening national unity is the common factor across the different security threats in Nigeria today. Adamu spoke in response to Daily Trust Saturday inquiries on the seeming persistence of security threats, which crossed over from the first term to the current administration of the Buhari government. According to him, issues of terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, farmer/herder clashes and the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), protests all have common factors that gave rise to them. “These common factors can be said to be weakening national unity. Several segments of the country are speaking a language that is not encouraging for our federalism,” he said. Adamu pointed out that another factor tied to all these are our weak criminal justice system which appears incapable of tackling and handling offences. “We can start with the arrest aspect by law enforcement agencies; several offenders are not arrested, sometimes due to impunity, sometimes due to the weakness of the law enforcement agencies,” he said, adding that national borders are porous, which allow the inflow of criminals and technology that bandits are using. For terrorism in the northeast, he said one critical issue that the Buhari administration has tried to tackle is the receding Lake Chad, going to several international forums to talk about the importance of recharging the Lake Chad region, and stopping the economic deterioration in the region which is the main crux of insecurity in the region. He said another critical element is climate change and the impact it has had on the Lake Chad region, tied to this is the weak military approach and focus on counter-terrorism, which has not been stable. There are other efforts of counter-terrorism which should have been included. Even though it has been identified at the national level, it has not been properly funded, Adamu pointed out. One of such, he explained is the Countering Violent Extremism (CVE) mechanism that the Nigerian government has introduced as an action plan, but that plan has remained at the level of the federal government. It noted that Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states have not been able to implement it and the military approach is not bringing in the kind of expected successes. Also, there is the issue of the inability of the military approach to win the hearts and minds of people in the affected region, hence the ability to gather intelligence is weakened, Adamu said. “These are the reasons why insurgency has transcended the first term of the Buhari administration, and continues now.” For farmer/herder violence, Adamu said climate change, overpopulation, demand for use of land, quest for more grazing fields, and criminality that has affected the herders, and weak family value system in society has exacerbated the crisis. He also said, sometimes the introduction of land use policies in certain states that is not friendly to either the farmers or the herders have also not helped matters. He stressed that in some locations, there is virtual absence of a coherent land-use policy, which also leads to an increase in insecurity. Banditry, Adamu said, to an extent is associated with the farmer/herder violence, especially the cattle rustling components. “Of course major factors include the porous national border through which weapons and bandits are pouring in and a weak criminal justice system that has been unable to penalize offenders,” he remarked. According to Adamu, the involvement of vigilantes that are not well-trained also add to the problem, as they are attacking and profiling suspects and sometimes taking the law into their hands, which has also been an issue. To address this, he proffered, the police need to come in and train the vigilantes to understand that they do not have the power of arrest. On the issue of the increasing protests by IMN, Adamu explained that one primary element is the refusal on both the government and the group to abide by the rule of law. Also of concern is the inability of the internal security agencies to get to the roots of the protest and address them squarely, he said. Additional data compiled by Haruna Ibrahim, Hassana Yusuf, & Imaobong Akpan We are set for life after Boko Haram –Bulama Change has come  to Boko Haram Biya: Dark clouds over  Nigeria, Cameroon Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin