Many persons were killed in a renewed crisis between two communities of Kastina-Ala Local Government Area in Benue State. Our correspondent gathered that gunmen believed to be on either sides of the warring Shitile and Ikyulav tyev communities attacked their people in the early hours of yesterday, killing many. A local council official who declined his name on print told our correspondent by telephone, that some gunmen suspected to be Ikyurav stormed Sati- Agirigi, a settlement of Shitile about 1:00am and killed seven persons. The official added that in what appears to be a reprisal, another set of gunmen attacked mourners at a wake-keep in Amaafu in Tongov Community of the same Katsina Ala LGA and killed at least 10 persons. “It’s obviously a renewed rivalry between Shitile and Ikyulav people in Kastina-Ala LGA. A few days ago, important personalities of the warring communities had held a peace talk and just when everyone thought there were no longer issues, we wake up to this sad happening today (Saturday),” the council official said. At the time of this report, some sources said the causality figure was over 30, while other local sources put the death toll on both divide at 25. Locals said the attackers rode on motorcycles and opened gunfire on their victims, killing many and injuring several persons in the process. But, the Chairman of the Kastina-Ala LGA, Mrs Virginia Kpindi, told newsmen in Makurdi, that more than three persons were killed and others injured are now receiving treatment in the hospital. The police in Benue State, when contacted said nine persons were killed in some communities of Kastina Ala Local Government Area of the state. Police spokesperson, Catherine Anene said, “the clash at Kastina-Ala was suspected to be the usual crises between Ikurav and Shitile. Nine casualties (dead bodies) were recorded. “The clash cuts across three villages. There is no reason for the attacks. Several meetings with the communities have yielded no positive result.”  Scores killed in Benue's fresh communal clash BREAKING: Police confirm 9 killed in Benue crisis Wanted militia kingpin kills 2 policemen in Benue Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin