The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has set three targets for the country’s new health ministers to work on-making primary healthcare sustainable, interfacing with other ministries to achieve better health and encouraging federal government to increase health budget. The association highlighted the target areas as it prepares for its second National Health Summit in November, the first of which gave rise to proposals that led to the National Health Act. NMA president, Dr Francis Faduyile, told a press conference in Abuja, “The major problem is for us to be able to have a sustainable primary health care. It is beyond the ministry of health but it is primarily state. “We expect the new ministers to work with states to ensure states increase funding to ensure primary health centres are functional,” said Faduyile. “If primary health care is good, the pressure will reduce on the secondary and tertiary systems.” Former minister of state for health Osagie Ehanire was named early August as health minister, replacing Isaac Adewole, while Adeleke Mamora was named minister of state for health. Faduyile said the new ministers must also interface with other ministries so they can work well together, noting that sustainable health care was multidimensional, with factors that cut across the purviews of other ministries, including agriculture, environment and finance. He added the new ministers must also encourage federal government to increase funding to health. They should also encourage the public to help increase health financing by using the National Health Insurance Scheme. President Muhammadu Buhari has been slated as special guest of honour, the United Arab Emirates health minister as panelist, Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa as speaker, with former head of state Yakubu Gowon to chair the opening ceremony. Doctors set three targets for new health ministers HEALTH OPENING PAGE Nigerian health sector: Challenges new ministers should address Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin