The Presbyterian Church of Nigeria (PCN), Kubwa Parish, Abuja, has held its 24th choir anniversary. It was songs galore as the Anointed Choir of the church thrilled audience with different renditions, ranging from hymns to classical and native songs. The Voice of Praise arm of the church also rendered high praises and worship songs that got everybody singing and dancing to the glory of God. Also in attendance with wonderful renditions were the choir departments of all the parishes of the PCN in Abuja, as well as the Cathedral of Saint Bathelomew, Anglican Communion, Kubwa and Cathedral of Grace, Methodist Church, Kubwa. Declaring the event open, the minister in-charge of the parish, The Rev Edet. E Umo, reminded Christians of the efficacy of praise, saying that God appreciates the praises of his people. Speaking on the topic, ‘Sing Unto the Lord a new Song’, taken from Psalm 98:1, Umo charged those present at the event to make praise and worship their guiding principles, just like prayers. He said unlike other activities, praise and worship would continue in heaven. According to him, praises bring down the glory of God and give one the opportunity to witness, firsthand, the sovereignty and power of God. He quoted the case of Paul and Silas in prison. In his welcome address, the choirmaster of the church, Mr. Ibor Abam, said the event was to appreciate God, whose guidance had yielded spiritual and physical increase in the Anointed Choir. Abam disclosed that Kubwa choir started with only five people 24 years ago. He called on choristers not to allow anything to deter them from singing to the glory of God. The event was crowned with an award presentation to Pillars and Friends of the Anointed Choir, while choristers who distinguished themselves were also appreciated.  Travis Greene, Sammie Okposo, Frank Edwards to headline TAPE & Fearless Concert CAN, Gowon endorse choir festival At 69, Adeboye garners tributes Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin