A summit on African shipping organizations expresses concern over arbitrary freight charges. For three days, fifteen countries’ shipping economic regulators, under the auspices of the Union of African Shippers’ Council (UASC) converged on Abuja to deliberate on effective ways to end arbitrary and high shipping charges on the continent, mostly by other continents’ shipping lines. The sub-regional workshop which focused on status of convention on facilitation of international maritime traffic (FAL Convention) in UASC member states and a joint standing committee meeting of UASC held from Monday 26 to Wednesday 28 August, 2019, in Abuja. The summit had the theme, “Impact of Unfair Shipping Surcharges and High Local Shipping Charges on National Economies and West African States.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The meetings also aimed to provide avenue for the UASC Member Countries to strategise and articulate common positions on how to checkmate the multinational shipping service providers/carriers with a view to adopting a collective position for presentation at the Annual General Meeting of the Global Shippers’ Forum scheduled for September in London. It was to also to enable them create more awareness and provide insights to the relevance of the FAL Convention to member countries for domestication and effective implementation. After three days of extensive discussions, the Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr. Hassan Bello, told newsmen that the meeting reached a consensus to drive down cost of freights to Africa currently at about 40 percent more than other continents of the world. He also said the meeting concluded that most of the charges were unfair, undefined and unsustainable adding that African shippers’ councils will work to reverse the trend that has gone on for far too long leaving in its wake uncompetitive market for Africa. “Certain decisions have been arrived at, but nothing has been agreed yet. What we have general consensus on is that charges of the transport cost have effect on our national economy. The cost of transportation is 40 percent more in Africa region than in any other regions,” he said. He noted that “it is important we look at this cost in a very scientific manner and be able to negotiate them appropriately. We are not price fixing organisations but we should also have moderation on the cost. The lower the cost of transportation, the more the economy grows.” Mr. Bello also noted that transport being substantial in the cost of production must be made competitive. “In our manufacturing sector, there are so many things to be done, there are no incentives. If we have high cost, the cost will ultimately be pushed to the final consumer, and that means inflation, that means there is a common consensus among all the 15 countries here that these costs should be reasonably priced, even more important Nigerians, Togolese, Gabonese, Ghanaians, and all African countries should participate in the negotiations” he said. He spoke about the unfair nature of the prices. “We feel that some of these charges are arbitrarily and unilaterally levied because we are not informed of the component charges, we don’t know how these charges were arrived, we don’t have the information,” he lamented. “We also have a consensus that some of these charges are not verified, they are unsubstantiated, and they are not arrived at with the economic indicators, and how things are priced in the economy especially international trade and transportation should be scientifically arrived at. So that’s what the union is thinking now that Shippers’ Council should represent the shippers and shippers should be involved in the negotiations of these cost,” he said. The Executive Secretary explained that the meeting was looking at many things in terms of price reduction as negotiation has been going on for quite a while adding that they will soon arrive at a consensus and the memorandum of understanding signed. “It is expected that 30-35 percent reduction should be charged by the shipping lines,” Mr. Bello also said. “When we are saying surcharges, are they really justified, are they really tied to charges that are meant to be charged?” he asked. Going forward, he said: “If for example my country is not at war, and you are charging me as if it is, and you slam war risk clause on the cargo coming to Nigeria, the shippers have the right to ask, and what are the complaints? What premium are we paying? We want to know the component of this; we want to be a part and partner in the trade,” he explained. “If you go to a restaurant and you get a bill, you must ask a question, if you do not take salad and you see salad charges in your bill,” noted. Also commenting, Director, Consumer Affairs, NSC, Cajetan Agu, said the standing committee also extensively discussed critical issues. “The first one is the issue of arbitrary charges levied on transport service providers, the second was on the need to carry out a study or training on freight rate; the third was the need to constitute an expert group of the union of African shippers council to engage the multinational shipping companies on the issue of freight rate and surcharges and the issue of transit rate to connected countries.” He explained that on the issue of imposition of arbitrary charges, it was agreed on the need to engage the multinational shipping lines because if shippers are paying the freight, they should know the component they are paying. Another aspect was on the need to obtain reliable data to give the power to engage the multinational shipping companies. Thus, USAC was given the mandate to collect and collate data relating to freight charges in the west and central African countries adding that USAC has contacted a group of experts on that. On the issue of transit rate and transportation cost, Agu said it was discussed and agreed upon that there is the need to deploy technology on the issue of transit. “There is a convention that if there is a cargo meant for Niger Republic and it is transiting through Nigeria port to Niger, customs usually provide a convoy of escorts that would follow the consignment from the Nigerian port to the last border country and the essence is to ensure that there was no diversion. But we would realize that modern era with technology you don’t need to go through all that,” he explained. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo while declaring the meetings open had said these surcharges amount to huge sums of illegal capital flight from the countries of the sub-region depleting their limited foreign exchange/reserves. The Vice President represented by the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Ameachi said West and Central African States are currently facing harsh socio-economic conditions that have impacted negatively on trade. The objective of this summit, therefore, is for the sub-region to adopt a common position on how to reduce the incidences of unfair surcharges and related issues.” Shippers Council hosts summit on high shipping charges FG working to drive down shipping cost by 35% – Shippers Council SMEs kick as FIRS plans 5% VAT on online transactions