The Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, yesterday, dismissed the petition filed by the Hope Democratic Party (HDP) challenging the conduct of the February 23 election which returned President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office. The tribunal had on June 27, dismissed an application by a factional chairman of HDP, Poland Tapre seeking to withdraw the petition against President Buhari and the APC on the grounds that Tapre failed to prove that Owuru was no longer the national chairman of the party. In a judgment yesterday, the tribunal held that the petition, which was challenging the postponement of the election was a pre-election matter and ought to have been taken to the Federal High Court. HDP and its presidential candidate, Ambrose Owuru had sought the nullification of the election on the grounds that the shift of the date of the election from February 16 to 23 by INEC rendered it illegal, unconstitutional, null and void. Owuru also asked the tribunal to declare that he defeated President Muhammadu Buhari with 50 million votes in a presidential referendum which they conducted despite the February 16 postponement. But in a unanimous judgement read by the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba, the panel held that the matter being a pre-election one was filed outside the 14 days provided by the law. The tribunal further held that the petitioners failed to prove allegations of exclusion by INEC in the February 23 presidential election. “This tribunal is not persuaded to invoke its powers to grant any of the reliefs sought by the petitioners because it has no jurisdiction to do so and, on the fact that the petition is predicated on a purported February 16 referendum and not the election of February 23 that has the force of power,” the judge said. The court also held that under the Electoral Act, INEC had the powers to postpone an election. Presidential Tribunal closes pre-hearing in PDM’s petition Presidential tribunal asked to stop Buhari’s inauguration PDM seeks to withdraw from petition against Buhari, others Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin