Armed robbers went on rampage on Saturday in Mushin, in the Lagos metropolis, attacking passers-by and shop owners and dispossessing them of their belongings. The police said the four robbers, operating on a Honda motorcycle, stormed Ogunmokun Street, a popular commercial area in Mushin, on Saturday evening and began robbing shop owners. Daily Trust learnt that the robbers proceeded from there to Isolo Road, Mushin, where they robbed drivers and snatched bags from commuters and pedestrians. When the police received information on the activities of the hoodlums, they detailed an anti-crime patrol team, led by Inspector Dada Akawu, from the Mushin police station to pursue them. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, disclosed that the team intercepted the four robbers on their Honda motorcycle, registration number AKM 300 VJ, along Ogunmokun Street. He said the police reasonably suspected the arrested men to be members of a gang of armed robbers that had been terrorising Mushin and its environs. He added that the gang usually operated on a motorcycle for easy escape after their robbery operation. “The gang was responsible for series of robbery reported in the area, using the same mode of operation. They took advantage of traffic situations and dispossessed unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables, such as handsets, laptops, bags and money. “The rider refused to stop and the motorcycle was given a hot chase. The leader of the gang, Taofeek Abayomi Oladiran, 26, was arrested, while the others escaped through different directions into crowded areas. The motorcycle was recovered. One bag containing a locally made pistol, one expended cartridge, 11 live cartridges and a jacket lined with charms were recovered,” Elkana said. The PPRO further said that Oladiran had mentioned the other suspects still at large as Afeez, Michael and Tolu, and that operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad had launched a manhunt for them.  Police in Lagos arrest 8 suspected cult members during initiation Police smash cult initiation ritual Police arrest suspected 21 ‘One million boys’robbery gang members Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin