The governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in the March 9, 2019, election in Ogun State, Adekunle Akinlade, yesterday, asked the election tribunal sitting in Abeokuta to sack Gov. Dapo Abiodun and declare him winner of the poll. Akinlade and his party filed a petition marked EPT/OG/GOV/01/19 on grounds of alleged over-voting. They added that Abiodun lacked the requisite qualification to contest in the election in which he was declared winner by the INEC. Akinlade, through his lead Counsel, Mike Osuman (SAN), yesterday, adopted his final written address before the Justice Yusuf Halilu-led panel, praying it to disqualify Abiodun, invalidate his victory and return him (Akinlade) as the governor-elect. In adopting the address, Osuman submitted that the governor who was the candidate of the APC, committed “illegality and falsehood” by submitting contradictory certificates to INEC when he contested for a seat in the Senate in 2015 and governorship in 2019. He said Abiodun’s CF001 of 2015 and that of 2019 marked as exhibits 331 and 331A by the tribunal were characterised by “inconsistency, smacked falsehood thereby falling short of a person occupying office of governor.” He further said Akinbade was not contesting the qualification of the governor, but rather alleged falsehood committed during submission of CF001 to INEC at different times. He also accused INEC of aiding Abiodun in using “fake documents” to contest the election. “On grounds of public policy, he must not be allowed to benefit from his illegality or wrongdoing. The second respondent (Abiodun) authored and swore to exhibits 331 and 331A. The contents of the two, if juxtaposed, show there is falsehood. I urge, that if falsehood is established, the panel should not only disqualify him, but also invalidate his election. “Therefore, I urge your lordships to invalidate the election and, in his place, return the first petitioner (Akinlade),” Osuman prayed. In his submission, Abiodun’s lead Counsel, Prof. Taiwo Osipitan (SAN), described the APM’s petition as dead on arrival and urged the tribunal to dismiss it. Prof. Osipitan submitted that the issue bordering Abiodun’s certificates was a pre-election matter which had already been determined by the court. Ogun governorship: Akinlade, APM close case at tribunal Ogun: Allow Akinlade, APM inspect electoral materials, Tribunal orders INEC Ogun: Akinlade hires Adeleke’s lawyer as battle shifts to tribunal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin