The Imo State chapter of the APC, yesterday, warned the PDP to desist from spreading falsehood about the proceedings at the election petitions tribunal. The APC also urged the PDP to stop using propaganda and blackmail to incite the public. APC said it observed that the PDP had been sponsoring advertorials and writers to churn out falsehood in the media deliberately misrepresenting facts of the proceedings with the aim of twisting same to deceive the public and blackmail the tribunal. In a statement in Owerri yesterday, the Chairman of the state Caretaker Committee of APC, Prince Marcelenus Nlemigbo, said the PDP sponsored a publication by one Kennedy Eweama wherein it alleged, among other fallacies, that the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) who testified at the tribunal over the omitted results from 388 polling units did not get clearance from the police authorities before doing so. Prince Nlemigbo regretted that the PDP had thrown caution to the wind by making such wild allegations even when it knew that the DCP in question did not only get the permission of the police authorities, but in fact, tendered an authority letter from the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to that effect. He said, “We have all the facts about their meetings and their plans to use the media to spread falsehood to incite the public and blackmail the tribunal. “It is obvious from the utterances of the hired writers that PDP may be planning evil against the leadership of APC and our witnesses by inciting the public against the tribunal. It is easy to know that they (PDP) want to unleash violence on APC members.” He, therefore, called on the security agencies to take more than a passing interest on what was happening in Imo State to forestall breakdown of law and order in the state.  Page 17 2015 Political Events in Retrospective A/Ibom PDP berates APC over N2.5bn INEC bribery claim Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin