The Managing Director/CEO, Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA), Muhammad Arabi Tukur, says the agency has trained over 800 youths and women on ICT and other skills acquisition programme in the past three years. Tukur was speaking during the visit of the Director General, International Labour Organisation (ILO), Mr Guy Ryder, to the agency recently. “We are also focused on youth and women development; we have in the past three years trained over 800 youths and women on ICT, skills acquisition programmes covering areas such as shoes production and other leather works; cosmetology, confectionary and entrepreneurial training. “We are also in talks with other partners to upgrade the agency’s ICT hub with additional systems, 3D printers and other advanced systems to provide the needed environment that can inspire innovative solutions,” the MD/CEO stated. He revealed that plans are underway to undertake a financial literacy sensitisation programme to increase the number of entrepreneurs who have access to financial services to understand how to properly use the funds they received for their business. Tukur said though the agency has achieved some level of success, it was still reaching out to one of its partners – the International Labour Organization (ILO), Nigeria Office – towards scaling up and building new projects in various locations in the FCT. In his response, the Director General, International Labour Organization, Mr. Guy Ryder, said despite the successes, the challenge of scale-up still remains. “There are wonderful examples of successes but we know there are a lot of people out there who need decent work opportunities; there are a lot of young people looking for a place in their world of work, so it’s just doing more. “I glad with what they are doing but we need to scale up,” Ryder said. Abuja enterprise agency, ILO  to scale up youth empowerment UNESCO, FCT to train 50,000 women on skills acquisition Women turning entrepreneurs through skill acquisition Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin