Crude oil prices rose on Monday following a weekend attack on a Saudi oil facility by Yemeni separatists and as traders looked for signs that Sino-US trade tensions could ease. Price gains were, however, capped to some degree by an unusually downbeat OPEC report that stoked concerns about growth in oil demand. Brent crude LCOc1, the international benchmark for oil prices, was up 55 cents, or about 0.9 per cent, at $59.19 a barrel. US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures CLc1 were up 57 cents, or one per cent, at $55.44 a barrel. A drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi group on an oilfield in eastern Saudi Arabia on Saturday caused a fire at a gas plant, adding to Middle East tensions, but state-run Saudi Aramco said oil production was not affected. “The oil market seems to be pricing in against a geopolitical risk premium, following the weekend drone attacks on Saudi Arabia. “But the premium might not sustain if it does not result in any supply disruptions,’’ said Giovanni Staunovo, an oil analyst for UBS. Concerns about a recession also limited crude price gains. Traders were also looking for signs of progress in US-China trade talks. White House Economic Adviser, Larry Kudlow, said trade deputies from the US and China would speak within 10 days and could advance negotiations over ending a trade battle between the two countries. But US President, Donald Trump, appeared less optimistic than his aides on striking a trade deal with China, saying that while he believed Beijing was ready to come to an agreement, “I’m not ready to make a deal yet.’’ (Reuters/NAN)  Oil rises after drone attack on Saudi field Oil prices rise to $72/p/b amid Middle East tension Oil slips below $80 on rising U.S. stockpiles Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin