The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said 15 oil firms have won the bids for its 2019/2020 Direct Sale of Crude Oil and Direct Purchase of 14 billion litres Petroleum Products (DSDP) arrangement. The corporation’s spokesman, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, in a statement said following the completion of the tender exercise, 15 consortia/companies emerged successful. The contract is for one year effective October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020. Daily Trust reports that under the DSDP, NNPC sells crude oil directly to offshore refiners and receive products from same in return. NNPC is targeting about 14 billion litres of products supplies from the 2019/2020 DSDP. It listed the firms to include BP Oil International Ltd/AYM Shafa Ltd, Vitol SA/Calson-Hyson, Totsa Total Oil Trading SA/Total Nig. Plc, Gunvor International B.V./AY Maikifi Oil & Gas Co. Ltd, and Trafigura Pte Ltd./A. A. Rano Nig. Ltd. Among the others are CEPSA S.A.U./Oando Plc, Mocoh SA/Mocoh Nig. Ltd, Litasco Sa/Brittania-U Nig. Ltd./Freepoint Commodities, MRS Oil & Gas Company Ltd and Sahara Energy Resource Ltd. The tender process comprised technical and commercial bid submission, evaluation and shortlisting, commercial negotiations with prequalified companies and engagement of successful firms by NNPC. “Under the DSDP arrangement, the underlisted 15 consortia/companies shall over the contract period, offtake crude oil and in return, deliver corresponding petroleum products of equivalent value to NNPC, subject to the terms of the agreement”, the corporation said. Oando, MRS, others clinch NNPC’s crude-for-fuel swap deals NNPC targets 14bn litres fuel supplies from fresh DSDP contracts Crude oil swap, fuel scarcity and matters arising Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin