President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Engr. Saleh Mamman as the Minister of Power and Mr Goddy Jedy Agba as the Minister of State. There were earlier speculations that former Minister, power Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola would be returned at the inauguration which held during the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. However, Fashola was named as Minister, Works and Housing, indicating a split of the erstwhile Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. The new Power Minister, Saleh Mamman is from Taraba state while the State Minister, Mr Jedi-Agba is from Cross River State. Daily Trust was at the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing (Power Sector) as the new ministers were expected to assume office but was told they will be at the ministry on Thursday when they will assume office. Daily Trust monitored his citation during the swearing-in ceremony. Engr. Mamman was born on January 2, 1958 and holds a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Electrical Electronics from Kaduna Polytechnic in Kaduna State in 1988 and an MBA from Bayero University, Kano in 2015. He started work as a teacher in Technical School Mubi, Adamawa State in 1981 and transferred his service to the newly created Taraba state in 1992. He rose to the rank of Assistant Director in the ministry of works in the state before retiring in 2002. He has since become a full time businessman and politician. Goddy Jedy Agba is said to be a bureaucrat, with a degree in International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University, Samaru, Zaria in 1983, and a Master’s Degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos, Akoka, 1989. He was a former Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Goddy joined Federal Civil Service in 1984 and retired at NNPC in 2014 to join the Nigerian politics, according to Wikipedia. Senate to confirm ministerial nominees today Senate to conclude ministerial screening Tuesday Ministerial nominees: Senate to conclude screening Tuesday Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin