The Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) has approved a $230 million (two hundred and thirty million US Dollars) loan facility for 9mobile to help it attain its long-term growth plans. Daily Trust reports that the new Board and Management of Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Limited (EMTS), trading as 9mobile, has been making a number of efforts to reposition the company. . Convinced by the initiatives so far taken by the Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero-led Board and management headed by Acting Managing Director, Stephane Beuvelet, to return the  company to the path of growth and profitability through cost efficiency, innovative product development and network efficiency, the AFC announced the approval of the loan on Friday. In a letter addressed to both Bayero and Beuvelet, the financial institution said, “Africa Finance Corporation is pleased to inform Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services that it has received full Board approval to support the turnaround strategy of EMTS through a US$230 million super senior debt investment.” The facility divided into two tranches would, among others, be used to repay historic vendor obligations, finance costs and an interest reserve account and payment towards quick win capex initiatives, the company said in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, Abdulrahman Ado. Commenting on the approval, the Board Chair, Alhaji Ado Bayero, expressed happiness that EMTS’ effort to recover previously ceded ground through an innovative growth plan is being supported by a prestigious Pan-African financial institution as the AFC. “We can only express gratitude to the AFC for approving this loan facility that would not only help our business sustainability but also grow it to serve our teeming and loyal customers in Nigeria better. We have completely reviewed our operational, regulatory, financial and technical architecture to ensure we deliver quality services and this facility would go a long way in giving best in class services to Nigerians,” he said. It will be recalled that the new Board led by Alhaji Bayero took over 9mobile in November 2018 following a successful acquisition by Teleology Nigeria Limited. Other members of the Board include non-executive directors, Asega Aliga, Mohammed Edewor and Winston Ndubueze Udeh. Executive Director, Abdulrahman Ado and Acting Managing Director, Stephane Beuvelet. NCC, CBN regulatory interventions put 9mobile on growth path How NCC Saved Over 3000 Jobs At 9Mobile – Danbatta Teleology finally acquires 9mobile, appoints new board Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin