The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has launched a simplified portal for the registration of practitioners of financial reporting in Nigeria to 48  hours after submission. Speaking at the unveiling of new portal in Lagos, the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, FRC, Mr. Daniel Asapokhai, said the council attached  importance to professionals in line with its  statutory mandate to “maintain a register of professional accountants and other professionals engaged in financial reporting.” Asapokhai said the  unveiling of the new individual registration portal is a continuation of the council’s effort to achieve its mandates through a friendlier, responsive and cost-saving process that makes it easier to do business with government. He said: “The new individual registration portal enables one to register with the council at the comfort of his office, home or indeed anywhere internet is available without a physical visit to our offices. “Furthermore, it reduces the registration process period to the barest minimum. With the new individual registration portal, we expect to issue registration numbers within 48 hours after successful completion of the online registration process.” He called on all professional accountants and other professionals involved in the financial reporting process to leverage the new registration portal to ensure that their names appear in the register of professionals, and for the general public to use the online register to confirm that the professionals they engaged or were dealing with, were registered with the Financial Reporting Council.  FRC inaugurates audit regulation working group IoD, FRC to partner on corporate governance for SMEs KPMG stands by its audit opinions on Stanbic IBTC Holdings Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin