The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, has highlighted the many benefits of the Nigeria-Morocco Gas Pipeline (NMGP) project, saying it will open new vistas for Nigeria’s gas aspirations. Kyari disclosed this at a stakeholders’ engagement between the corporation, its Moroccan partner on the gas project, Morocco National Office for Hydrocarbons and Mines (ONHYM), and the executives of international oil companies operating in Nigeria, at the NNPC Towers on Tuesday. The meeting was sequel to high-level discussions on the Pipeline Cooperation Agreement (PCA) for the NMGP project signed between both countries during separate visits by their leaders, President Muhammadu Buhari and King Hassan VI, respectively. The PCA will particularly facilitate the establishment of a gas pipeline to supply the product from Nigeria to Morocco and the West African sub-region and further into Europe. At the moment, both countries are planning to extend the pipeline that has been pumping gas from Nigeria to Benin, Togo and Ghana since 2010 to Morocco. Speaking shortly after the engagement with the representatives of the multinationals, Kyari described the project as strategic for the country, adding that it would provide market for Nigerian gas. “We have a lot of stranded gas particularly in the deepwater that we need to put on the table. This project will enable us have more gas in our domestic gas so that we can improve power supply and gas to industry,” Kyari stated. He explained that along the pipeline’s corridor all the way to Morocco and into Europe, there was a huge potential for development of the West African subcontinent and parts of North Africa. Kyari, who restated government’s commitment to the project, also reassured the IOCs that issues around fiscal terms were being handled. He also enjoined them to be part of the project as a matter of responsibility.  NNPC to extend Ajaokuta-Kano gas pipeline to Algeria NNPC to extend Ajaokuta-Kano gas pipeline to Algeria ‘Nigeria-Morocco gas pipeline design almost completed’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin