Borno ‎Governor Babagana Umara Zulum yesterday travelled to Gubio local government area in northern part of the state raising public confidence after soldiers of the 5 brigade repelled dozens of Boko Haram fighters. The governor’s trip came after he set aside activities lined up for the Sallah celebration including a lunch with stakeholders of the governing APC and a traditional visit of the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai Al-Amin Elkanemi to the government house, which usually takes place at 4pm of every Sallah day. Zulum postponed the Shehu’s visit to Monday. The governor, alongside a member of the House of Representatives representing Gubio, Kaga and Magumeri federal constituency, Usman Zannah and some government officials, first visited headquarters of the ‎5 brigade in Gubio town where a meeting, hosted by the Brigade’s commander, Colonel I.A Ajose and attended by the theatre commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Benson Akinroloyo and the caretaker chairman of Gubio, Zannah Modu Gubio and other government officials, was held. Caretaker chairman, Modu informed Governor Zulum that were it not for a gallant resistance by soldiers of the Brigade, the insurgents could have gained control of Gubio on the Sallah Eve. Addressing a developing apprehension raised by the caretaker chairman on whether the Brigade was executing Gubio town, theatre Commander Benson, who oversees the fight against insurgency, assured Governor Zulum that the Army was going to maintain its presence. He however admitted that the Army was changing strategy. Governor Zulum said Borno government will sustain its support for the military by interventions on logistics, funding of volunteers in the Civilian JTF, hunters and vigilantes who complement the military in fighting insurgents as well as continued mobilization of citizens to cooperate and support the military. From the Brigade headquarters, Governor Zulum moved to Gubio township centre and addressed citizens around district head’s palace.  He assured them of the military’s continued presence. The governor presented additional patrol vehicles to more than 300 volunteers of the Civilian JTF and vigilantes. Soldiers rescue abducted oil workers, kill Boko Haram insurgents Gubio indicts FG over Boko Haram attacks Army extends closing time of Gubio road Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin