The Buhari Diaspora Support Organisation (BDSO) has expressed worry over the controversies surrounding the recent directive by President Muhammadu Buhari that ministers should report to his Chief of Staff, Malam Abba Kyari. The chairman of BDSO, Mr Charles Efe Sylvester, said the controversies were unnecessary because the president’s directive was not a novelty as it was a global practice. Sylvester cited the example of the United States of America, where the office of the chief of staff was created in 1939 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He said Roosevelt itemised the role of the chief of staff to include supervising key White House staff, control access to the Oval Office and the president, manage communications and information flow, and negotiate with the congress, the executive branch agencies and external political groups to implement the president’s agenda. He said: “In fact, from the above you can clearly see that Abba Kyari should be given more responsibilities. A few mischievous persons and agents of corruption have become irresponsible in their attack on the COS. “Naturally, the hullabaloo over the directive should not have been necessary but for the evil manipulation and deliberate misinterpretation of Mr President’s statement,” he said. “For the avoidance of doubt, the office of the chief of staff to the president is a constitutional creation. The 1999 constitution also spelt out clearly the roles and responsibilities of the chief of staff to the president. “Let it be known that the office of the chief of staff is the administrative engine room of the president and as such responsible for his day to day activities, communications, fixing of schedules and appointments for the president,” he said.  Ministers reporting to COS is global practice, says group Buhari: More powers for Kyari, barrier for ministers Abba kyari's role has not changed in Buhari's second term - Presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin