The National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) has expressed its willingness to partner with Media Trust Limited, publishers of Daily Trust and other titles, to disseminate information on development in space science and technology. Acting Director General of the agency Mr. Jonathan Angulu made the commitment when a team from the media outfit paid a courtesy call on the agency in Abuja yesterday. Mr. Angulu said with the launch of its latest satellite into orbit, the Nigeria Sat-X which was built by Nigerian engineers, the agency was passionate about its exploits in space satellites in Africa and would be happy to share more information about its activities to every Nigerian. He said: “We have been working with Daily Trust for years back and I pray that relationship we have established, we will continue with it.” Commending the media outfit for its balance and objective reportage of news and particularly its coverage of the agency, he urged the organization to continue in that line. The Editor-in-Chief/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Media Trust Limited Mallam Mannir Dan-Ali in his remarks after making presentations to the agency on the opportunities for partnership with the media house, said the essence of the visit was to appreciate the national space agency for its patronage over the years and seek further business partnership. The CEO who was represented by the company’s General Manager in charge of Business Development and Strategy, Ahmed Ibrahim Shekarau said the company in its twenty-one years of existence has always set out to do things that will positively impact on Nigerians. “We open ourselves to criticism and observations and also share with our stakeholders some basic information that they may not be aware of,” he said. FG names Jonathan Angulu acting NASRDA DG Agric: Landmark University, NASRDA partner UK debunks funding Nigeria space projects Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin