The APC has condemned the attack on a former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, by members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), on Saturday in Nuremberg, Germany. In a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC described the attack as an assault on decency, adding that those involved in the despicable action and the organisation they represented were unworthy in character. The APC said all Nigerians had responsibility to collectively rise against evil irrespective of political party affiliation. “No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Sen. Ekweremadu was. It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens; whether in Nigeria or abroad. “It is regrettable that some of the people and organisations who had offered these irresponsible elements open support in the past are raising their voices now. “It would be recalled that the main opposition party, the PDP, and its leaders chose to play politics over a matter that called for collective patriotic action when IPOB raised a terror group in the South East. “It is clear that PDP and its other short-sighted co-travellers who were the main cheerleaders of IPOB owe this country an apology. IPOB hid under regional identity to perpetrate criminality having recruited some misguided elements and miscreants. “Are we surprised by the PDP’s hypocritical reaction to the unfortunate attack on Sen. Ekweremadu? No! The PDP and their leaders have acted true to type. This is what happens when politicians become myopic and allow narrow sentiments becloud their sense of judgement,” the ruling party said. How IPOB members attacked Ekweremadu in Germany Attack on Ekweremadu by IPOB condemnable — S’East youth Page 17 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin