Chairman of Abaji Area Council Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya has expressed concern over what he described as ‘damaging’ comments on social media especially among some youths in the area. Ajiya stated this when he paid Sallah homage on the Ona of Abaji, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, at his palace, which had village, district heads, community leaders, as well as other tribal chiefs in attendance, yesterday. He said bad comments posted by the youth on the social media were unfortunate, as they could cause serious damage not only to highly placed individuals but also affect and retard development of the council. “I want to plead with all of us, especially the youth, that we should be wary of the kind of comments we post on Facebook,” he said. The chairman also said his administration would not relent on its efforts to ensure that academic activities take off at the University of Technology in the area, adding that the council was also making effort to ensure that the multi-million water project was completed. He therefore called on residents of the council to use the Sallah celebration to live in peace with each other irrespective of their tribal, ethnic and religious differences. Earlier, the Ona of Abaji and chairman of the FCT Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, advised youths in the area to ensure they acquire education. He said there was need for youth in the area to take advantage of the scholarship scheme award to indigenes of the FCT by the administration to go to school. He commended the chairman of the council for his efforts in addressing some basic infrastructural challenges across the council.  I’ve built projects across political wards – Abaji chairman Ona of Abaji demands more logistics support for police My victory for people of Abaji, say chairman-elect Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin