An army of distributors is pushing dietary supplements onto food shelves across Africa-and smiling to the bank in return In March 2011, Susan Onyacha, PhD, was on the verge of a life-altering decision. She was a lawyer, working with the Kenyan Revenue Authority. A firm was introducing a range of health products into Kenya. First, it had to go through the Standards, Poisons and Pharmacy Board. Customs officials who clear consignments through the border, came to Onyacha with a request to help the firm through the process. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Among the products was a supplement for bone-and-cartilage problems. Onyacha’s mother was ailing from arthritis. “When I saw the bone-and-cartilage product, I requested a sample to take to my mother. In three months, she recovered, and I saw it as a breakthrough for families who were suffering from arthritis, osteoporosis and the rest,” she said. She became a proponent for dietary supplements, supporting its use on a network marketing scheme, touting its benefits all through her down line. It paid off. Four years later, she resigned from her job to become a full-time marketer of dietary supplements. Today, she is the topmost earner in Africa on the network, raking in nothing less than $80,000 dollars in bonuses a month. She drives at least four exotic SUVs won for performance, enjoys a $25,000 medical cover and is on line for a $25,000 villa. “Which company will give you this, even if you work your head off?” she asked. Network marketing of dietary supplements is making millionaires out of focused individuals, and they are popping up across the continent. They come under varying sections: bone and joint care, cardiovascular health, digestive health, immune booster, men’s health, multivitamins, slimming and beauty, even for baby and general healthy living and wellness. And their growth signifies the rising prevalence of dietary supplements across the continent. It isn’t just athletes using them; the general public is buying into a rapidly evolving medicine of nutrition. The products classified as supplements jostle for space on pharmacy shelves. Whole store ranges are devoted to them. “Modern society now looks at nutrition, and the best medicine now is in what we eat,” says Ugandan Kawuma Mutumba. Recently awarded a PhD in humanities from an American university, he is the third topmost earner in the network, raking in at least $35,000 a month. “When you look around, it is not easy for the 21st person to eat the true nutrients from food, they rather go for fast foods and fortified foods. “At the end of the day, they can’t find the real things the body would want. The body would lack a lot of nutrients that will cause deficiencies and complications, health challenges. People can no longer do away with sugar, oils, gasses. As a substitute, people have resorted to the wellness industry, going for food supplements,” he explained. The craze has made him rich beyond his dreams. At 35, he drives a “V8 Landcruiser, GL Mercedes, Vogue Range Rover, Porsche Cayenne, invested in land, now in agriculture-and this is my source of income,” he said. Because supplements are not therapeutic drugs, food and drug regulators don’t clamp down too hard when it comes to scrutiny. Manufacturers don’t have to prove claims that supplements actually work. Instead, they are required to put on labeling that the product is “is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any diseases.” Their marketing targets consumers directly. And network marketing is drawing in more buyers and sellers. Ajisefini Ibukun is the third highest earner in the network in West Africa and has risen to the top three in Africa since he joined in August 2013. He has dropped every other work to focus on network marketing of dietary supplements and currently earns N11.7 million a month-with the lowest monthly average of N8m, according to him. “If you really want to have financial freedom, you have to be an independent person. I chose network marketing,” he said. “I am still building my career. It has increased my experience of leadership and given me another responsibility, another impression about my country. “Right now, getting to this level changes my way of thinking to see how I can use the platform to support my country and join hands with any government in power to eradicate poverty.” The number of distributors becoming millionaires on just one network marketing platform mirrors the rise in the demand for and consumption of dietary supplements across Africa. “The demand is more than we can meet,” says Onyacha. “But we have not reached too many people. As many people as we look for, the demand will always be there. We are there to address challenges.” And the bank accounts of early-bird distributors are reaping the benefits of wellness industry. “The salary you have cannot even handle basic expenses. At the end of the day, you are in deficit,” said Mutumba. He was awarded yet another car this August. “If you are in deficit for 10 years, what can you achieve, you cannot even buy a car or a plot of land. Networking is a blank cheque, you have the ability to change your earning.” 17 Nigerians, others get cars from BF Suma Daily intake of nutritional supplements cannot prevent depression- Study Why public analysts are moving against “unhealthy” food supplements Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin