Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris, yesterday decried what he called palpable hardship in the country that requires the urgent actions of the federal and Kaduna State governments to bring succour to Nigerians. He gave the advice while delivering his Sallah message at his palace, saying that governments at all levels need to pay serious attention to the welfare of Nigerians. “The suffering requires the attention and assistance of the governments at both federal and state levels. Similarly, we are urging our people to continue to promote peaceful coexistence. Fulani herdsmen and farmers should respect the interest of one another. People are also urged to avoid rumour mongering and give maximum cooperation to security agents. “Kaduna state, local governments and the House of Assembly should take measures that would bring about development in the areas of agriculture, animal husbandry and education. “If these sectors are giving necessary attention, they are capable of bringing about peaceful coexistence and the end effect is improvement in the lives of our people,” the emir said. While he called on government to buy surplus of farm produce after harvest in order to assist the less privileged in time of need, Idris urged residents to always report outbreak of any epidemic to relevant authorities. The emir also advised residents to always monitor the movements of their children in order to stem the habit of drug abuse that is rampant among the youths. As part of the Sallah festivities, the first traditional durbar was staged yesterday where horse riders displayed their skills amidst the applause of residents. The two raka’at Eid prayers were peacefully observed at different parts of the ancient city. Emir, JNI, CAN proffer solutions to Kaduna crisis Sallah in Zaria: The glamour, the excitement Protests spread over Zakzaky arrest Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin