Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) Abdullahi Adamu Candido has made a case for automatic employment for Miss Talatu Adamu, an indigene of the FCT, who emerged the best graduating student from the University of Abuja this year. Talatu studied Chemistry and graduated with a  Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.82. “We are here to thank God and showcase this young Talatu to AMAC residents so that we can emulate her. She comes from an unusual location.  She is not from the city or from wealthy parents. She attended public schools. Yet she went all the way and got the best for herself,” he said when hosted her. “Having proved so excellent, she should be engaged as a lecturer in the university,” he said, adding that “I have told the Chairman of Kuje (her area council), that he must go all the way to ensure that she is given what is due to her.” Candido donated N500, 000 from the council to Talatu, adding that she would serve as a model for students, especially girls in realising their potentials regardless of myth or beliefs. The chairman also said he would make bursary available to students from the council studying in tertiary institutions by September. He commended her parents for enrolling her and encouraged them to sustain the effort. Talatu said the journey was not easy but was grateful to her parents for their support, adding that she found herself in a society that discouraged girl-child education but was encouraged by her parents. She commended the chairman for the support, adding that she would want to become an advocate for the education of the girl-child. Kuje boss tasks Abuja varsity on admission, employment for FCT natives Over 250 youths empowered with my security votes - Candido Candido presents N8.26bn budget Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin