The Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) has said it will work with government agencies and other stakeholders to enforce strict engineering standards, to rebuild the nation. The COREN President, Engineer Ali Rabiu who disclosed this at the council’s 28th Assembly in Abuja, lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for recently signing the amended COREN Act, CAP E11, 2004. He said, “It is hoped that engineering professionals will work within the engineering codes, ethics and standards and be committed to consolidating the gains alongside government to address key challenges of climate change, resettling displaced communities, insecurity, failed structures and so on. “I wish to confirm that COREN and all its stakeholders are ready to collaborate with federal, states and local governments, legislators, the diplomatic corps and all Nigerians to rebuild and reposition Nigeria as the heartbeat and reference point for the African continent,” he said. Rabiu said the Act has repositioned the council for effective monitoring and control by giving it far-reaching powers of prosecution of infractions among other roles with the implementation beginning soon. He also revealed that COREN was working on adopting a framework for monitoring and controlling engineering activities nationwide especially with the planned constitution of an Engineering Regulation Monitoring National Technical Committee comprising all stakeholders. The Engineering Assembly is hosted annually by COREN as a forum for all certified Nigerian Engineers across the states and the FCT to come and rub minds on issues in the sector with a view to charting the way forward. COREN makes fresh move against quack engineers Engineers tasked on infrastructural devt Buhari, Masari, others to attend 28th COREN Assembly Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin