The Juli Education Foundation (T-JEF) has provided material and monetary support to indigent students at Government Secondary School (GSS) Koroduma, Karu, Nasarawa State as it celebrated its first anniversary. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of T-JEF, who spoke with our reporter at the school yesterday,   said she did her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)  at the school and it was while there that she was inspired to start a foundation assist the less privileged students. She said the foundation’s focus was to help drop outs to go back to school while it also help other poor students who are already in school with books and school fees payment. “We also reach out to students to help them make the right career choices; we also ensure that students in secondary schools are computer literate. We have been to many schools in as many states as possible in the country. We train them to acquire skills that will make them successful in life. “When I was teaching here, I noticed that students just come to learn without having the intention of writing the West African Examination Council (WAEC), National Examination Council (NECO) or Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). “I registered some of them for these exams and subsidised the fees for others. I also organised a computer training for them and gave out laptops to the best students just to encourage them,” she said. She said her love for children prompted her to start the foundation, adding that seeing what the pupils  went through to acquire education inspired her. “I used my finances in helping them, it became difficult for me at a point then I decided to register my foundation to get help from people,” she added. Benjamin Jude, the immediate past head boy of the school, said the foundation paid his WAEC and JAMB fees and he now has hope of furthering his education. The untold story of ‘candi’ syndrome Cross River COE expels 200 students Tanimu Foundation puts smiles on more faces Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin