A 24-year-old man, Chimezie Solomon, has denied having unlawful carnal knowledge of a 16-year-old girl, whose identity the police protected, saying she was his girlfriend who enjoyed making love with him. The police had yesterday dragged Solomon before an Ogba chief magistrate court, Lagos, for rape and abduction. The police alleged that the accused person harboured the teenager in his house, located at Yusuf Street, Ejigbo, Lagos, without the knowledge of her parents and was having carnal knowledge of her for about a week. The prosecutor, Superintendent of Police Benson Emerhi, told the court that Solomon abducted the girl from her parents’ house at Aminatu Street, Ejigbo, on July 19, 2019 and hid her in his house for some days while her parents searched for her. Emerhi said the parents then reported the matter to the police at the Ejigbo Division as a case of a missing person. The prosecutor said that the girl’s parents later discovered on July 24, 2019 that she was in Solomon’s house. He said that Solomon was arrested and after due interrogation, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, ordered that the case be charged to court. In his defence, Solomon explained that while the girl was with her, he treated her so well that she didn’t want to leave his home. “I had no choice than to keep her,” he added. The magistrate, Mrs O. Sule-Amzat, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000, with two sureties in like sum. He was remanded in prison custody pending when he will perfect his bail conditions. Sule-Amzat adjourned the case till October 17, 2019. Court remands teenage boy in juvenile home over sex with 5 year-old girl Man remanded for fondling with girl’s breast Court remands 3 men over defilement of minors Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin