The Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON) has called on the Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to do a complete system appraisal within and without the entire customs operations. A letter signed by APFFLON National President, Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, said “The code of ethics of the NCS specifically prohibits officers and men of the service from engaging in the business of clearing or forwarding of imported goods.” Among other abnormalities pointed out by APFFLON are: insider trading and preferential treatment, controls and racketeering, non-compliance with rules of engagement and insecurity, among others. As a remedy, Ogunojemite suggested that the use of camp boys at the operational base be discouraged. He also advised NCS to embrace open door policy in all its operations and empower zonal coordinators and area comptrollers by assigning greater responsibilities to them as well as discourage insider trading to achieve licensing regulations and advancement. APFFLON further suggested the stoppage of indiscriminate use of task forces in place of line staff and that the present task force be disbanded and their work returned to the zonal and area commands. “If there must be an urgent need for task force to stem or stabilize operational misgivings, it should be structured as an ad hoc interventionist, or corrective measure that will act within a short frame of time, then disbanded,” the association said. It, however commended the comptroller general and his team for their efforts towards the upgrade and integration of clearance process of the NICIS window. It noted that the system has not in any way limited or reduced human contacts with officers and cargo, but that it suffered self-defeat as it is coercive and does not promote the culture of professionalism among other shortcomings. Customs reform: Presidential Task Force wades through rot Group wants FG to transfer destination inspection to Customs Customs: The challenges for tough-talking Hameed Ali Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin