The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel told Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the state not to believe his words if he fails to address their grievances. Speaking on Wednesday in Uyo during a ‘Thank you’ meeting of state, ward and chapter leaders of the party, Emmanuel said he would address the murmurings and complaints of party members. Reacting to the murmurings of some members of the crowd, the governor assured them that he has heard their complaints and would address them within one week. He said if he fails to resolve their grievances within one week, party members should never believe his words again, adding that they all worked for his re-election as governor. Emmanuel who appreciated state party members of the PDP for their support said they were held in high esteem all over the world for supporting him to be reelected, noting that better days lie ahead. “I have heard your complaints and murmurings. If by next week, implementations to your complaints are not addressed, if I talk next time, don’t believe me again. I have ordered immediate implementation to your complaints. Before the end of next week, implementations of your complaints will commence.” “I thank all of you, from unit to wards and the chapters of the party. Today, I stand here as the man elected through the platform of this great party to re-echo my avowed commitment to the Akwa Ibom project. “I will channel all my efforts, which will be backed by your support, into the pursuit and actualisation of the completion Agenda. Together, we will make Akwa Ibom the state we will be proud to bequeath to our children and the generations that will come after we have gone,” he said. Also speaking, State Chairman of PDP, Mr Paul Ekpo, said the party was satisfied with the performance of Governor Udom Emmanuel, adding that  the success was due to the commitment of all the stakeholders to the ideals of the party. He commended the people for keeping the trust as demonstrated in the landslide victory for the PDP, and assured the Governor of the party’s unflinching support to his administration.  Akpabio: APC’s Silver Bullet for South-South Battle for A/Ibom Government House thickens as Nsima Ekere launches campaign PDP will station 1,000 vote defenders per unit in Akwa Ibom – Governor Emmanuel Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin