The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, rested its case on the evidence extracted from the APC governorship candidate in Benue State, Barr. Emmanuel Jime, at the election petitions tribunal in Makurdi. Barr. Jime had submitted a petition to the tribunal against Gov. Samuel Ortom, his party, PDP, and INEC, alleging irregularities during the March governorship election in the state. Our correspondent reports that INEC, during the previous sitting of the tribunal, applied for yesterday to open and close its case. At the resumption of trial, lead Counsel to INEC, Offiong Offiong (SAN), told the tribunal that, “Having taken a calm review of all that the petitioners have done and what we have achieved in cross examination, we think that evidence extracted from the petitioners and the documents they tendered are sufficient and we do not intend to call witnesses. Offiong said, “In the event that there is any witness that we can tender documents from; we will do so. That is the case of the first respondent pursuant to Paragraph 46(5) of the First Schedule to the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended).” However, Gov. Ortom’s legal representative, Edward Ashiekaa (SAN), said the second respondent would be calling witnesses. Ashiekaa said, “If this were a civil process, we would have taken the footsteps of the first respondent. But because election matters are sui generis, we will call witnesses,” and therefore, applied for another date. The Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Henry Olusiyi, adjourned until today for the second respondent (Ortom) to open his case. Justice Olusiyi added that the first respondent (INEC), by consent, had five days to open and close its case and that the days started running from yesterday. Tribunal: INEC rests defence on Jime's evidence Sokoto gov’ship: PDP closes defence without calling witness We won’t call any witness in Sokoto — INEC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin