The Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and chieftain of APC, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has said that the Igbo of the South East are aware that “2023 is the date we are waiting to produce Nigeria’s president of Igbo extraction.” Briefing newsmen in Enugu yesterday on a call for nationwide protest by Global Coalition for Security and Democracy (GCSD) led by Omoyele Sowore, and the poor response to the call in Enugu, Mr. Okechukwu explained that Ndigbo did not participate in the protest because they were waiting to elect Nigeria’s president of Igbo origin come 2023. Okechukwu said 2023 was more relevant to the Igbo than a protest that might not solve the issue at stake. The VON DG, who held a meeting with WAWA Farmers Association at the weekend, said, “That’s why they didn’t participate in the protest. All one heard from the people one discussed with in the meeting with WAWA Farmers Association was their anger over incessant killings; like that of Rev. Fr. Paul Offu. “Instead of protesting, they are urging Mr. President to overhaul the security architecture and upgrade the security network. They cried that insecurity is hampering their farming activities.” Asked why he thought his people considered 2023 more important than insecurity in the land, Okechukwu said, “They know that in democracy, street protest will neither alter the crisis on the ground nor provide solution in the short run; for gains made in democracy throughout the world were evolutionary and incremental; not RevolutionNow.” He added that, “Nigerian president of Igbo extraction is our goal; which street protest will not enhance. We are in constitutional democracy, no matter the challenges, it is better to adhere to the cycle of elections provided in the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended.” On Sowore’s detention, Okechukwu said, “I appeal for his release on compassionate ground, for with time Sowore will come to terms that the huge gains democracy made in the United States of America, and in particular, New York, where he resides, were made incrementally over the years via periodic and cyclic elections, not via revolution.”  2019: Igbo should accept Buhari''s Olive branch - Okechukwu Osinbajo’s pleas for Yoruba a clarion call for Ndigbo – VON DG Igbo should accept Buhari’s olive branch — VON DG Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin