Following the appointment of Senator Hadi Sirika as substantive Minister of Aviation, stakeholders have tasked him to hit the ground running, saying he has just 24 months to write his name in gold. President of Aviation Roundtable, an industry think-tank, Elder Gbenga Olowo advocated for three strong flag carriers structured along geopolitical, geo economic zones – North, East, West Lines. The airlines, he said, should have 25 aircraft each at a growth rate of 2.5 per cent annually to compete strongly and achieve benefits latent in African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFTA). For the airlines to succeed, Olowo also called for the review of existing bilateral air service agreements (BASAs) as a market intervention to protect the three carriers from foreign dominance. He said there should be immediate reversal from all multiple entry points in Nigeria to Single entry points. “This is the necessary and sufficient condition for a viable and productive Aviation sector at Sirikas second coming,” he said. Olowo added, “I do not envy him for the arduous tasks ahead because he has said so much in the past four years and expectations are so high.  These four years have no room for rhetorics. In fact 2019 is already gone and 2023 is election year. He said the Minister should deliver Airport concessioning as planned and engineer two to three Airport companies of Nigeria with the task of modern Terminal Buildings with installed High Technologies and functional carparks that will make Lagos, Abuja, Kano a formidable West African Hub by 2025. This is doable judging from the case study of Ghana within a span of 4years.” The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji said the reappointment of Sirika was good for continuity He said he would expect the Minister to hit the ground running because he was already familiar with the terrains, adding Sirika has little time to “prepare the industry for the challenges posed by the emerging African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA), so we don’t need a new person that will require a lot of time to learn the ropes”. The lawmaker representing Nkanu East and West Federal Constituency, Enugu State stated that he is happy the minister is coming at a time the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN) is commencing the reconstruction of the Enugu Airport Runway. He urged the minister whom he said understands the problems associated with Enugu Airport, to use his knowledge as a seasoned aviator to ensure that the right things are done immediately because of the importance of the Airport to the South East. Former General Secretary of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Comrade Olayinka Abioye urged the Minister to carry stakeholders along. “As the industry begs for a new direction and galvanised action. We trust that you have the capacity and ability to excel but you must carry all your colleagues in the industry along, the stakeholders, industry supporters and aviation enthusiasts, the unions and even share a listening ear with the critics,” he said. Review all existing air pacts, Aviation stakeholders tell Sirika Review of Nigeria’s 90 air pacts long overdue - Stakeholders page 26 AVIATION 2015 REVIEW Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin