Twenty-nine-year-old Salisu Ibrahim ventured into the local body beauty products about three years ago in Maiduguri. Starting small, Salisu is today a big distributor and has empowered some others in this venture of his. He speaks on why and how he ventured into the world of women products and more. Tell us how you ventured into this journey? I started this business three years ago. I used to be elsewhere, working under someone else, who taught me how to trade. He was my neighbor. I used to sell earrings. But I later on decided to learn how to do something different and since women loved to take care of their bodies, I decided to do this one and started it. Local body treatments are best compared to the chemicalized ones. These ones are organic and good for the body. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Can you tell us about these products? There is `tsimi,’ it’s a local brew that women use to increase their intimate pleasure with their partner. We also have `dorot’ which is most times used for ‘gyaran jiki.’ skin repair and maintenance. There is also dilke  used to softer skin and removes dirt from the skin. There’s another one that’s mixed with milk and lemon which also makes skin soft. How much did you start the business with and how much is it worth today? I started it with about between N20,000 to N30,000. But now I thank God, I have a house I can rent on my own and I use the money I make from this business to provide everything that is needed at home. I am married with three children. I’m also making plans of building my own house soon. Today its worth way more than what I started with. I am proud to say I can also empower people to start something small on their own. Where do you get your products from? There are people who supply them to us and there’s also a place we go to buy them here in Nigeria. There’s a woman who supplies us and I collect what I will be needing to make the products. There’s one made with irish potatoes, I mix it with oil and package it in a way that it won’t get spoilt easily. This particular product polishes the skin. Women particularly come for this product because of its effectiveness on the skin. What would it cost an intending bride to get your products? It all depends on what she wants. There are some that take time before you begin seeing the effect and there are some that don’t need that much time. So, if she wants something good, she can get something from the range of N10,000. For the super-rich bride, we can do from N20,000 and above. We operate on a person’s budget. We can do N5,000 also, it all depends on your budget and how well you want your skin to glow on your big day. Whatever your budget, there’s no way you apply these products and you won’t notice a difference on your skin. Has the Boko Haram insurgency affected your business? No not at all. We thank God. Our customers are not only from Maiduguri, I have customers across almost all of Northern Nigeria. I think Gombe is the only state I don’t send my products, but they come to buy and go back.  How I ‘re-mixed’ traditional beauty treatments – Bakari-Marwa Why we produce, promote locally-made bags - MD LeLook How pottery business thrives at Ajiwa community Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin