With his enthronement as the new Emir of Maru in Zamfara State, Alhaji Abubakar Gado Maigari, has an uphill task in regaining confidence to the stool.  Recently, Alhaji Abubakar Gado Maigari was appointed as substantive Emir of Maru in Zamfara State. His appointment followed the deposition of his predecessor Alhaji Abubakar Cika Ibrahim. The new emir was the secretary to the Maru Emirate for a long time before he was appointed as Senior District Head of Maru East, a position he held until he became the substantive Emir of Maru. In the appointment letter signed by the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, the new emir was appointed based on merit as well as his long-standing experience in the affairs of the emirate. His appointed, however, followed when the former Emir, Alhaji Cika and also the District Head of Kanoma, Alhaji Lawal Ahmad, ran into trouble waters after they were indicted in a probe for aiding banditry in their domains. In a statement by the state deputy governor removing the monarchs, it stated that the duo were suspended last June following protests by their subjects amid allegations of connivance with armed bandits and cattle rustlers in the state. According to the statement, a high-powered committee headed by a former Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar, was constituted to among other things investigate their involvement in armed banditry and cattle rustling. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that the new emir worked briefly at Maru Teachers College now College of Education, Maru. In June, Zamfara State Governor, Bello Muhammad Matawalle visited Kanoma District to commiserate with people over bandits’ attack on a community and crowd of residents protested and registered their anger over what they described as the Emir’s connivance with suspected armed bandits and cattle rustlers. He immediately suspended the emir and consequently constituted a high-powered committee which investigated their alleged involvement. Even before the dethronement of the emir and the district head, more than 11 other district heads were removed by former Governor Abdul-Aziz Yari amid allegations of colluding with armed bandits and cattle rustlers. Even though traditional rulers in the state have persistently denied aiding the activities of cattle rustlers and other organized criminals, many people in the state have hailed the decision of the state government to come hard on the monarchs. But, it will not be business as usual as the task before the new emir will be overwhelming to get back the confidence of the people. Parts of the challenges before the new emir are working hard to unite the emirate, carry every one along without any discrimination and putting behind all acrimonious stature of any other member of the royal family. Under Maru Emirate Council, there are about 11 districts and they include Bingi, Ruwan Doruwa, Kanoma and Jabaka. There is also the issue of working hard to support the present administration in its quest to restore peace to the state. The allegations that  his predecessor was conniving with bandits and cattle rustlers leading to the former’s dethronement were very damaging to the image of the emirate and the new emir is expected to shoulder the task of protecting the good reputation and the integrity of the emirate council. In the same vein, restoring the confidence the emirate council and the citizens of the state in general reposed in the traditional institutions could also be part of the challenges the new emir will face as explained by a resident of Maru Local Government area. “If you look at it, the confidence the citizens have in the traditional institutions almost eroded especially with revelation that an Emir was found wanting in the issue of organized crimes in the state,” a resident, Sani Aliyu said. “Even though, this could be explained in general terms, but since the deposition of an Emir bordering on security implication started in the emirate council, the new emir has a critical role to play in rebuilding this confidence,” he added. Zamafara Governor, Matawalle dethrones Maru Emir Dankwambo reinstates emir deposed by Goje Garlands, as Rilwanu is turbaned Emir of Bauchi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin