A two-day workshop designed to keep regulatory, policy and stakeholder management personnel within the telecommunications, media and technology ecosystem abreast of current trends will begin in Lagos today. The workshop, packaged by AlexisXavier and Associates, a company established by regulatory experts, would take place at RadissonBlu Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos on August 15 and 16, a statement issued by the organizers said. It said the regulatory compliance and stakeholder management programme was designed to focus attention on the challenges and opportunities of regulating the digital media ecosystem. This is with a view to assist compliance and regulatory professionals manage the complexities of Over-The-Top (OTT) video services, the organizers said. The theme of the workshop is ‘Regulatory Reforms for the Digital Media Ecosystem: Challenges of Regulating OTT and SVOD Services’. It is expected to help attendees learn the fundamentals of digital media regulation, gain exposure to industry practices and discover practical applications to develop analytical skills required to manage change in a period of rapid disruption. “The workshop will also consider practical strategies to develop skills and culture that support innovation whilst delivering regulatory outcomes,” the statement added. Speakers would be led in discussions by keynote speaker, Prof. H. Sama Nwana. Other speakers include Dr. Katherine Righi, Emeka Okafor, Basil Udotai, Tope Egunjobi, Dr. Sam Amadi, Mary Ojiah and Emmanuel Ataguba. The workshop will be managed and curated by former Director General of the Nigeria Broadcast Commission (NBC), Mr. Emeka Mba, whose regulatory experience spans over 25 years across media, entertainment, technology and communication industries.  ‘Beneficiaries of ecosystem services in Cross River to pay’ Telcos risk N500,000 fine for violation of DND instruction Concerns over regulatory framework in telecoms sector Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin