It is almost four years since President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated his first cabinet – Wednesday, November 11, 2015. A repeat of that event is slated for tomorrow (Wednesday) as the president inaugurates his second term cabinet. Since late May 2019 when Mr Babatunde Fashola and Mr Mustapha Baba Shehuri left office, the Permanent Secretary (Power Sector) in the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Louis Edozien, has superintended. However, that will come to an end tomorrow when the new ministers are expected to be assigned portfolios to assume office after the inaugural Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. Daily Trust x-rays some of the quick wins for the new ministers for the power ministry and the hurdles they should be prepared to scale to achieve improved electricity supply. Quick policies’ implementation There are various ongoing policies the new minister could actively pursue and win the hearts of Nigerians in the power sector. Top of these is the desire expressed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo last week to recapitalize the Distribution Companies (DisCos) to ease their liquidity challenge and make them perform. The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has simulated about $4.3 billion (about N1.3 trillion) investment requirement to match distribution capacity with transmission which is said to be over 8,000 megawatts (MW). The recently announced AG Siemens power sector reset agreement is another issue that must be tuned up. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) said the contract could start in December 2019 targeting uplifting DisCos’ capacity to 7,000MW by 2021 and more. The Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) programme has been dragging since May 2019. Many DisCos are just rolling out even when NERC said implementation must begin in May. The MAP firms have complained of poor access to funding to take huge metering responsibility as well as the lengthy period for their Return On Investment (ROI). A ministerial intervention might be required here to do the magic. The Eligible Customer regulation spearheaded by Fashola is yet to materialize over issues of losses to the DisCos. NERC has considered the Competition Transition Charges (CTC) payable by customers who opt to get power directly from the Generation Companies (GenCos). The Electric Power Sector Reforms Act 2005 (EPSRA) requires the minister to get approval from the president to implement that. Reforming the presence of government in the DisCos’ shares is ongoing as BPE has announced additional representatives of government in their board. It requires the minister to act on this quickly as the ‘technical’ first five year review of the sector privatization should be implemented by November 1, 2019. Pending board appointments Since the first term of President Buhari, some of the agencies are yet to have their boards inaugurated. There is the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) without a board and the National Power Training Institute of Nigeria (NAPTIN) just had its acting director general confirmed. These are issues that should be fixed quickly. The Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) has yet a formal board and that should be cleared. Ongoing power projects for delivery? Osinbajo last week said about 670MW of power will be added to the national grid this year. This addition will be from the 115MW Gbarain NIPP, 40MW Kashimbilla, 240MW Afam Fast Power, 40MW Gurara, 20MW Dadinkowa, 215 Kudenda (Kaduna) plant and the 10MW Katsina Wind Farm.  Beside these, there is the 718MW Zungeru Power, and the largest of them all – the 3050 Mambilla hydropower project. Daily Trust reports that a Chinese team was at the site recently for inspection. Fashola had said this year that he was waiting for the financial close with the Ministry of Finance and the China EXIM Bank. However, he confirmed that funding for early works at the site was captured in the 2019 appropriation. The 215MW Kaduna plant was retrofitted by Fashola’s team to now take diesel or natural gas as fuel, it would be test run this year as N400 million worth of diesel has been appropriated for that in the 2019 budget. For the 10MW Katsina wind farm, officials said it will be commissioned by October this year, after a timeline for that was missed in 2018. The 40MW Gurara plant is not yet commissioned, so is the 240MW Afam Fast Power which is taking over two years to complete. Tackling sector crises, a panacea? Fashola left office with generation capacity rising from 6,000MW to 7,500MW; transmission capacity from 5,500MW to 8,100MW and distribution rising from 4,500MW to 5,375MW in 2019, statistics revealed. However, the actual average daily power supply only improved slightly. The usual load rejection, partial grid system collapses and the huge N1.3 trillion market liquidity crises that disrupt consistent payment for gas-to-power, among others, are still hanging and also need to be cleared through initiatives. In 2016, the minister was faced with push-backs from customers over the increase in electricity tariff by NERC. Since then, no new tariff has been implemented. With the present state of power supply, and the calls by operators to provide cost reflective tariff, the new ministers may be in for a twist as it is expected that NERC rolls out a five-year tariff plan (which eventually may be higher) by January 2020. The Headaches of Buhari’s Ministers Putting square pegs in square holes Tasks before new ministers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin