A group, under the aegis of Goodwill Ambassadors Events Agency and Kelvin Akpochimoraa Music Promotions Limited, is collaborating with the United Nations to support the Sustainable Development Goals towards accelerating the realization of peace, justice and poverty eradication in the Niger Delta. While speaking at a press conference, yesterday, the group led by Ambassador Chris Odey said their project, Niger Delta Youth Peace Conference, is aimed at sensitising the youths in the region on the importance of peaceful co-existence amongst indigenes and visitors and how to alleviate poverty. “This year, both organisations are recognising and celebrating those who made sacrifices and expanded resources towards ensuring that there is lasting peace and security in the region, as well as those who provide economic and human capital empowerment towards ensuring that there is prosperity and development for Niger Deltans. “These icons have shown us that peaceful co-existence is key to meaningful development in our region. We believe that when peace is given a chance, progress will be inevitable to achieve,” Odey said. He said as a prelude to the award ceremony coming up on October 24, they will partner with women and children advocacy groups to reach out to youths and widows in the Niger Delta region and would empower women with sewing machines and some youths with cash to startup their businesses. Mr David Diya Ashaolu, a partner, said the Niger Delta awards will also create awareness about climate change and responsible environmental activities as well as showcase the rich cultural heritage of the region. FG urged to consolidate on gains of Osinbajo’s Niger Delta tour Saboteurs behind groups issuing quit notices – Balarabe Musa Buhari committed to peaceful, developed Niger-Delta – Boroh Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin