A chieftain of the APC, Mr. Osomkime Blankson, has said zoning has never been a prerequisite for electing a governor in Bayelsa State since the return of democracy in 1999. While reacting to the agitation by some stakeholders calling for a particular part of the state to produce the next governor, the party chieftain said zoning was “very alien” to the politics of the state. Blankson, a member of Sen. Heineken Lokpobiri’s Governorship Campaign Organisation, told journalists in Yenagoa yesterday that APC in the state needed a popular candidate to win the November 16, governorship election. He said, “I’ve been in the political scene for a long time, and being a stakeholder in the Central Senatorial District, I cannot remember any time stakeholders met and agreed that the office of the governor should be zoned to any particular part of the state. “In all the elections we have been contesting since 1999, candidates from all local governments participated; so trying to sacrifice competency to zoning may spell doom to our democratic arrangement.” Also, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Venezuela and Third Republic Senator, Amb. Felix Oboro, said even if there had been zoning in the state, all the senatorial districts had produced governors, adding that the ideal thing was to give the other four local governments that had not produced governor opportunity to do so. Amb. Oboro said, “If zoning policy is based on senatorial district, all the senatorial districts have produced governor, so we may lose the best candidate if we insist on this zoning that has never existed in Bayelsa politics. “There has never been a time where stakeholders sat and agreed on zoning of political offices, rather, it is always given to the best. But agreement aside, zoning is actually a PDP thing, it is not constitutional, APC doesn’t practice zoning.” Between Ribadu and Ngilari 18 NEW 18 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin