The All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has called on natives and residents of Abuja to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari for his administration to succeed in taking Nigeria to greater heights. The party’s secretary in the FCT, Hashimu Angama, appealed to the natives not to engage in any violent protest in their demand for a minister from among them. Angama also expressed confidence that the present administration has the best interest of FCT people at heart, adding that with patience and support from the people, their desires would be actualised. Angama said though it was painful that FCT natives have no representative at the Federal Executive Council had not been achieved, he was urging them not to lose hope in the government. “I am appealing to residents of Abuja, mostly the natives to be patient with this government because all hope is not lost. If our ministerial desire is not achieved today, that does not mean that it will not be achieved tomorrow. “We should not go to the streets in violent protest because one of our people was not nominated among the ministers that will be inaugurated this week. We should continue to support this government, because President Buhari has the interest of every Nigerian at heart and will ensure that everyone is treated equally. “The people of FCT have been known for peace, unity, and love for one another, despite the years of marginalization by past administrations, so we should continue to live in peace and unity, by avoiding grievances that could tamper with the development of this territory, in order to have our desires in the FCT come to pass,” he said.  FCT minister has given natives appointments – APC chair As FCT residents welcome new administration Cabinet: FCT natives in diaspora urge Buhari to re-consider them Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin