The Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Alhaji Ado Ibrahim, has urged stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State to avoid in-house fighting, saying they should sit down to resolve their differences. The traditional ruler gave the advice yesterday at his palace in Okene Town when a former Chief of Naval Staff and APC governorship aspirant for the November 16, 2019, governorship election in the state, Admiral Jibrin Usman (Rtd) and his campaign team visited him for royal blessing. Alhaji Ibrahim advised the party to be “righteous” in making the choice of its candidate, adding that “righteousness exalts a nation.” He described Adm. Jibrin as a man who came from a disciplined profession that observed “best” as watch word, saying he would give the state the best if given the chance to govern. The monarch said, “You are asking nothing but the best for the state. Many ex-military officers holding brief on different assignments are doing their best in the country. This is because in the military, best is meant for the best.” He, therefore, enjoined the supporters of the ex-military officer to give him the needed support to enable him succeed in his bid to rule the state. Earlier, Adm. Jibrin told the royal father that a distress call by the people on the challenges bedevilling the state made him to come out of retirement on a “rescue mission”, saying the present leadership lacked capacity to handle the state. Adm. Jibrin said, “My people have suffered enough. I come from a profession that detests non-payment of salary. It’s only in Kogi that payment of salary is seen as an achievement. The Federal Government (FG) has been releasing funds to the state in different ways besides the statutory fund, but unfortunately, it was not translated on ground. “I and your son, Gov. Yahaya Bello, are from the same party. Ordinarily, whether he performed or not, he should expect a challenge. But here, he did not do well. That is why I am in the race to take over from him.” Echocho, 109 others defect to APC in Kogi What indirect primary means for Kogi APC Kogi: Top contenders to ‘battle’  Gov Bello Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin