Proceedings and legal fireworks over the March 9, 2019, governorship election at the Imo State Election Petitions Tribunal clearly indicate that the last has not yet been heard about the election. So far, three petitions against Gov. Emeka Ihedioha who won on the platform of PDP are already generating ripples in the state. The petitions were instituted by Sen. Ifeanyi Araraume of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA); Sen. Hope Uzodinma of the APC and Chief Uche Nwosu of the Action Alliance (AA). The three petitioners are seeking a judicial pronouncement upturning the election which they allege was “massively rigged” in favour of Ihedioha. Gov. Ihedioha is expected to open his defence against the claims. While Sen. Uzodinma is praying the court to declare him winner because, according to him, his score in most parts of the 27 Local government areas in Imo were fraudulently excluded by INEC, Sen. Araraume is contending that the election be annulled for Ihedioha’s alleged failure to satisfy the constitutional requirement which made it mandatory for a candidate in a governorship election to score 25 per cent in two-third of the state before he could be declared winner. In the petition with No: IM/EPT/GOV/03/2019 dated 29th March, 2019, filed on his behalf by Awa Kalu (SAN), K. C. Nwufo (SAN), Ahmed Raji (SAN) and others, Araraume is praying the tribunal, headed by Justice M.U. Dogondaji to void the Certificate of Return issued to Gov. Ihedioha and conduct a fresh governorship election in compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act and the 1999 Constitution. While testifying, Sen. Araraume claimed that facts available showed that all the votes credited to Ihedioha in Aboh Mbaise, Ahiazu Mbaise, Ehima Mbano and in the other 17 local government areas of the state were void and unlawful. He added that the “original, neutral and credible electoral officers” who were sourced by INEC from the University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia State, were “inexplicably” changed few hours to the governorship election and replaced with “a different set of untrained electoral officers and ad hoc staff, most of who came from Mbaise where Ihedioha also comes from.” According to the petitioners, the PDP candidate did not win 25 per cent of total valid votes cast in two-third of the 27 local government areas in the state as prescribed by Section 179 (2) and (3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. After Araraume’s submission, INEC was supposed to have produced Dr. Fidelis Ugwu who is its Director of Operations in Imo State and its sole witness to adopt his written deposition and probably attempt to debunk Araraume’s claims. This was not the case. Even after the tribunal had given INEC a grace of 24 hours to produce the witness, following a plea by INEC’s Counsel, Aham Eke Ejelam (SAN), INEC failed to bring its witness, leading to what could be termed an “abandonment of defence.” A plea by Ihedioha’s lead Counsel, Onyechi Ikpeazu, for more time to open his defence could not persuade the tribunal as the Chairman, Justice Dogondaji, had hinted that the tribunal was running out of time. While testifying, Araraume had tendered evidence to support his claims which were all accepted by the tribunal. Also accepted was INEC’s certified “back end report” which was tendered by Araraume’s lead Counsel, Awa Kalu (SAN). Part of the numerous challenges confronting the tribunal is to determine the effects of the inability of INEC to produce its witness in the case, at least, to adopt his deposition and fault Araraume’s submissions, if necessary. The fact that INEC never challenged Araraume has raised legal questions, hurdles and uncertainties which PDP and Ihedioha have to deal with as the tribunal winds up. Accordingly, Ihedioha is expected to open his defence against the petitioners: Araraume, Nwosu and Uzodinma, as tension rises in the state over the controversial governorship election. Sen. Uzodinma denies felicitating with Imo Governor-elect Breaking: PDP's Ihedioha wins Imo gov poll A likely scenario in Imo, come 2019 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin