A social justice advocate, Dr. Chizoba Imoka-Ubochioma, has said the examination structure in educational institutions in the country does not allow critical thinking by young children but impoverishes their minds. Dr. Imoka-Ubochioma said there are other ways to assess a child, not just about cognitive excellence, but about cultural competence, critical consciousness, character development, and life skills. She said in finding solution to academic challenges in the Nigerian educational curriculum, parents needed to know the history of the education system in Nigeria which she described as colonial education system used during the colonial times to create subjects that would uphold the British Empire. She spoke at a one-day free symposium organised by MultiFlex Learning Academy aimed at creating awareness between cognitive development and academic capabilities of children. The symposium, which was held in Abuja, had as theme, ‘Please Don’t Push Me” and had in attendance facilitators from the United States of America (USA). Also, a representative of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses in North America, Dr. Victoria Nworu, said there was need to align educational system needs to match appropriate mental development, and stressed that developmental milestones, and readiness of a child cannot be overemphasized. Earlier, the school’s director, Mrs. Anna Ekeayanwu, expressed delight stating that the theme was crucial to parents which they didn’t know how to approach but this programme had brought that out. She said children from MultiFlex started training as early as two years and were engaged in various activities including creative arts and cooking.  How school infrastructure shapes science subjects Are we confused? Reviewing the almajiri education project (II) Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin