The Embassy of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela in Nigeria has criticise the recent US sanctions targeting Venezuela while asking  Donald Trump Administration to “Hands off” so as to avert humanitarian crisis. The US President had earlier issued an executive order banning Americans from doing business with President Nicolas Maduro’s government. The Venezuela’s Ambassador to Nigeria, David Nieves Velásquez Caraballo, led a rally at Unity Fountain in Abuja on Saturday, tagged “Trump Hands off Venezuela”. The Envoy stated that “these attack of Trump administration against Venezuela” is a campaign ploy, which shouldn’t be as “We [Venezuela] are not part of the electoral system and electoral discussion of the United States”. He stated that the Maduro’s government is working with several countries which include China, Russia, Turkey, India, South Africa, Some of the African Union countries as well as Latin American countries and Caribbean Countries among others. A media official of the Embassy, Patience Danjuma, who also spoke at the rally stated that she is bothered that Trump’s Executive Order did not take into consideration the citizens who are going to be faced with humanitarian crisis. “This is something that should not be happening. Why will you as a country come in to alter the democratic system of another country?” “I believe according to the Vienna convention everybody should respect boundaries and you shouldn’t cross another boundary to go and try to rule or install a ruler in an independent country,” Patience stated.  With Maduro still in power, questions about the U.S. role in Venezuela VENEZUELA: President Maduro ready for talks with opposition Venezuela crisis: We’re ready for talks with opposition – Maduro Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin