The three students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) who were abducted by gunmen along the Abuja- Kaduna highway on Monday evening have been released. They are Fatima Jalingo, Maryam Bello and Umar Sagir all final year students of the university. The Kaduna State police command confirmed the release of the abducted students. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Police public relations officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo in a statement, Wednesday evening, said “The three ABU students involved in the incident of 26th August 2019 along Kaduna Abuja road have been released today and they were reunited with their families accordingly. Until today, they were the three victims left in captivity.” The Management of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) had earlier confirmed the abduction. A statement issued by the university’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Ismai’l Shehu read that, “three students of the Faculty of Law were kidnapped on the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway. “But efforts are being made by the university, and parents of the affected students to secure their immediate release,” he had said. The identities of the other persons abducted with the students were however not disclosed. The Kaduna State Police Command in its account of the incident said at about 6:50pm on Monday, armed men in military uniform intercepted some commuters along Kaduna-Abuja Expressway and opened fire on the vehicles and in the process kidnapped six persons. DSP Yakubu Sabo in a statement said due to the prompt response of the police and other security agents to the scene, three people were later released by the hoodlums due to intensive combing of the area. He said, “The rescued persons alongside the abandoned vehicles were recovered to Police Station. Concerted efforts are still being coordinated by the joint teams of Anti-Kidnapping Unit, PMF and the IRT to rescue the remaining three victims and apprehend the perpetrators of the crime.” ABU students disclose names of abducted mates Police parade 8 over Kaduna kidnappings 'Abducted ABU went to raise funds for dinner' Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin