The Lagos State Police Command has expressed serious concern over the increasing rate of suicide in the state, and especially the use of Sniper, a highly poisonous insecticide, for the purpose. The concern came in the wake of four suicide cases recorded in the metropolis within three days, with the police command noting that most of the victims took their lives by drinking Sniper. The source said that the Lagos State police Commissioner, Zubairu Muazu, was shocked at the weekend when a depressed housewife, Omolara Nathaniel, was found dead last Friday after hanging herself on a ceiling fan at No. 5, Adewole Street, Egbeda. The police said that preliminary investigation revealed that the mother of one had been undergoing treatment for depression before she decided to end it all. Also on Friday, a 46-year-old banker committed suicide by drinking a poisonous substance believed to be Sniper in his room in Victoria Island, Lagos. The deceased, Onyechere Ibeakanma, who was married with one daughter, allegedly took his life after leaving a note for his wife, Cecilia, who was said to be out shopping. In the note, Ibeakama, a Relationship Manager of one of the new generation banks, stated, “The evil I have been battling with has succeeded in quenching the flame. You married a wrong man. You are a good woman and you deserve the best. You need to be happy. You need to soar. Please take care of our princess, Chinenyenwa.” The late banker had last month written in a Facebook post, “The light is gradually dimming out.” On Saturday, a 43-year-old commercial bus driver, identified as Kabiru Bello, also allegedly committed suicide in his bus in Lagos. Bello, a resident of Owode-Ibeshe, in Ikorodu, until his death, was said to have taken an insecticide suspected to be Sniper inside his bus, registration number AKD 724X M, he had parked at Lady Lak bus stop, Bariga, Lagos. Neighbours at the workshop were said to have rushed him to Adesola Clinic, Bariga, where he was confirmed dead. According to police spokesman, Deputy Superintendent Bala Elkana, when homicide detectives visited the scene, they discovered an empty bottle suspected to have contained the Sniper insecticide.    Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin