Meat, milk, wool, hides and skins business supports about 1.3 billion people in developing countries, the President of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Prince Adetokumbo Kayode, has said. Prince Kayode disclosed this during a roundtable discussion on ‘Developing Nigerian Livestock Value Chain’ held in Abuja yesterday. The industrialist said livestock business contributes up to 30 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the agricultural sector of the economies of countries in sub-Saharan Africa. He described as “huge” Nigeria’s dependence on import of over 40 per cent of its beef requirement to meet domestic demand. He said livestock business in Nigeria is exposed to large number of risk factors such as climate change, drought, floods, pests and diseases, conflicts and insecurity; limited social safety nets for operators; scarce livelihood diversification options; and low capacity operators. “We are interested in the development of a master plan tagged National Livestock Master Plan (NLMP) to be purely private sector driven towards addressing the major challenges facing the sector and transforming it by guiding investments in major sub-sectors,” he said. He said the ultimate goal of NLMP is to establish a livestock sector, which shall be commercially run, modern and sustainable, using improved and highly productive livestock to ensure food security, improved income for households and the nation while conserving the environment. He revealed that a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed with Kyungpook National University of Korea and that the master plan implementation would start as quickly as possible. Why financing manufacturing, businesses remains huge problem Nigeria’s fresh moves to rescue troubled livestock sector How imports, neglect stunt Nigeria’s diary sector Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin