On Monday, the Embassy of China in Nigeria hosted a range of guests to mark the anniversary of the founding of the Chinese Armed Forces of the People’s Liberation Army, as well as the 70th anniversary of the founding of the PRC. The annual event, which takes place every year at the Chinese mission, highlights the efforts made by the Chinese forces in safeguarding national sovereignty, security and development interests, and its role as an upholder of world peace and human progress. In a cosy hall, drawn from various sectors, guests mingled and were served drinks and cocktails. Military officers from the United Kingdom, Brazil, and numerous other countries were present, all decked out in mess kits (attire). Also present as a guest of honour, was the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. The host for the evening, Sr. Col. Liu Yongxuan, the Chinese Defence Attaché to Nigeria, emphasized how Nigeria and China have enjoyed a very friendly and beneficial relationship over the years, as well as the African continent as whole, which was well highlighted during the course of the evening. In regards to Nigeria, Yongxuan revealed that since his appointment as Defence Attaché in 2017, two agreements of N5.5 billion had been signed for military aid, as well as military and security training for Nigerian officers in China. Also, Yongxuan expressed his country’s willingness to working with the newly reelected government to further grow and nurture the bilateral relations to the next level. “With the steady progress of the Belt and Road Initiative, and under the principle of mutual assistance, we will reaffirm our support to Nigeria in the capacity building in areas of national defense, counter-terrorism and counterinsurgency, and the military and security cooperation between our two countries will be further strengthened,” he added. “I strongly believe that China and Nigeria will build a stronger and closer community with a shared future and become a model of new type of international relations. As for Africa, on July 15th a new milestone was met, with the first China-Africa Peace and Security Forum taking place in the Chinese capital of Beijing, with nearly 100 senior representatives from 50 African countries, not limited to defense ministers and chiefs of staff.” “Peace and security cooperation are important pillars of China/Africa partnership. I am confident that together both will strongly advocate the new concept of security, that security should be common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable, and together we will build a new type of security partnership featuring equality, mutual trust and win-win cooperation.” “The world today is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. Humanity is faced with a lot of global problems of uncertainty and challenges. President Xi’s advocate to build a community with a shared future for mankind is the right path forward and is the trend of times,” Yongxuan stated. The Nigerian CAS, Air Marshal Abubakar, reiterated the appreciation that Nigeria has for China’s continuous support and investment the security sector. “The relationship we have with the Chinese embassy is no doubt a fruitful one. We look forward for other areas of partnership and we’re very happy with where the relationship lies today,” he said. The evening continued, as guests mingled and socialised, networked, and feasted on delicious Chinese cuisine, ranging from seafood dishes, to beef and vegetable delicacies, including delectable pastries. When asked what she thought about the event, a guest remarked: “What a tasty, colourful evening.” China marks 86th anniversary of People’s Liberation Army DHQ: Nigeria to strengthen armed forces through research When culture enthusiasts celebrate Nigeria, China Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin