Police in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have arrested a domestic staff and six Beninese nationals for allegedly stealing from their principal. The police said the suspects, a cook and six other domestic staff, had moved a safe containing foreign currency from Apo to Mpape where they took the money therein after vandalising the safe. A statement from the command spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manza, said the cook was newly employed by his principal and was arrested by operatives of the command’s special anti-robbery squad after discreet investigation. Manza said the suspect, Samuel Tchiki, conspired with Francis Kpohouede, George Akinto, Donald Tokpe, Honore Tokpe and Emmanuel Savi, all from Benin Republic, adding that the suspects have made useful statements on their roles in the crime. According to him, the suspects have confessed to have used part of the stolen money to buy generator sets, electrical appliances and other items which, he said, have been recovered. “Some cash has also been recovered from the suspects,” he said. The command advised members of the public to always conduct thorough background check before engaging the services of domestic servants. Manza, further disclosed that the police also arrested two robbery suspects, Jeffrey Guobadia and Ali Mohammed, for allegedly attempting to rob residents at Toge village, along Airport road. He said the suspects were arrested following a distress call, adding that a locally fabricated pistol and one long dagger were recovered from them. He said the suspects would be arraigned in court after conclusion of investigation.   Police nab suspected hoodlums terrorising Games Village residents Suspected toy gun robber nabbed in Abuja Murder at home: When ‘househelps’ kill Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin