Over 10,000 traders in various markets in Bayelsa state have benefited from the Federal government’s tradermoni free interest loan empowerment scheme. The federal government’s delegation went to major markets in the state capital, including Tombia-Etegwe roundabout, Okaka market, and others, disbursing N10,000 to each of the 10,000 beneficiaries shortlisted for the scheme, while urging them to use the money properly. Speaking after the exercise, the officer in charge of Strategy and Operations in the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), Mr. Taiwo Tunmobi, said over 20,000 traders had earlier registered for the programme, but 10,000 were considered to benefit from the first batch. He urged beneficiaries to make good use of the money and ensure that they pay back at the stipulated time to enable government to do more for them. According to the GEEP officer, two options were given to the beneficiaries to make daily payment of N85.00 or N430.00 weekly to the tradermoni account of the federal government in any bank of their choice after two weeks of grace. Some of the beneficiaries who spoke to our correspondent expressed appreciation to the federal government for helping them to grow their businesses. The chairman of Tombia-Etegwe roundabout market, Mrs. Felicia Okwodejo, thanked the federal government and the organizers of the programme for making her a beneficiary, urging other beneficiaries to ensure that they pay back the money as when due. Another beneficiary, Mrs. Deborah Azeveli, who runs a provision store said, the money will help boost her business and save her stress of taking goods for credit and pay after selling. Bayelsa: 10,000 traders benefit from FG's tradermoni scheme 200,000 traders benefit from Tradermoni in Kano Over 800,000 traders now beneficiaries of Tradermoni - Osinbajo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin