The Federal Government will not write-off the loan given to members of the Master Bakers Association of Nigeria under the N3.4bn Cassava Bread Intervention Fund. The Cassava Bread Fund was created by the Federal Government as part of the transformation policy in the agribusiness sector. Speaking at a meeting in Abuja with members of Masterbakers union, the Chief Risk Officer, BoI, Dr Ezekiel Oseni, said the objectives of the Federal Government for cassava bread production was being threatened due to the high non-repayment rate of the loan. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY For instance, he said about 94 per cent of the loan collected by High Quality Cassava Flour Processors have yet to be repaid while 86 per cent of loans collected by Master Bakers are still outstanding. The implications of this, he noted, was that it would be difficult for the government to provide more funding for the sector. Without adequate funding, he said the objectives of government in conserving foreign exchange, creation of jobs along the cassava value chain, and prevention of post-harvest losses may not be achieved. Earlier, the National Secretary of the Master Bakers Association of Nigeria, Jude Okafor, urged the government to write off the interest on the loans to make it easier for the debt to be repaid. He also urged the government to extend the repayment period of the loan to about ten years. He pleaded with the government to stop the use of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and other security agencies in harassing members of the association that are yet to repay their loans adding that steps are being taken to offset their indebtedness  Cassava bread: FG moves to reduce flour importation, meets bakers, processors Lagos bakers fault N2.2bn cassava bread fund disbursement Still waiting for cassava bread Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin