The Nigerian Medical Association in the FCT have urged the presidency to investigate inter-agency rivalry over spate of insecurity around the country, insisting it was negatively impacting the delivery of health services. A number of doctors have been kidnapped this year alone, prompting a protest and strike by doctors in Cross River state. Two others kidnapped since March in Taraba are yet to be released after N12.3 million was paid in ransom. “What are our security men doing? They are trying their best but can we say it is good enough,” said NMA chairman in the FCT, Dr Philips Ekpe. The association’s concern follows arguments that trailed a fatal shootout between soldiers at a checkpoint and police officers transporting a kidnap suspect. The army has said its soldiers mistook the unmarked movement as a kidnapping. Three policemen and a civilian were killed in the encounter and the kidnap suspect set free, leaving both the police and army to engage in blame trading. “If we as civilians are watching them in this argument, then what is happening. We are left confused and hopeless,” Ekpe said on Monday. “Right now, it is very difficult to travel by road because of fear of insecurity. [President Muhammadu] Buhari should not keep quiet. There should be an investigation panel to find out why there should be argument among security apparatus over the kidnapping of Nigerian citizens. It is his duty to make sure we have security in this country.” The association said insecurity has hit health care delivery hard, putting health workers at risk when they have to work at night. Medical doctor kidnapped in Imo Kidnap of 14 doctors in 4 years draws NMA’s ire in Cross River Ex- medical director, wife abducted in Ekiti Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin