The All Progressives Congress (APC) has congratulated the newly-inaugurated ministers and asked them to work hard in order to secure lives, end poverty, grow the economy and infrastructure in the country. The APC in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu also asked the new ministers to consolidate on the achievements already recorded in the various sectors of the nation. The ruling party called on the ministers to ensure teamwork amongst themselves so as to create harmony in the governance system. The APC explained that this was the only way to achieve synergy in the policy implementation and overall implementation of the Next Level manifesto for the country. “The party notes with utmost satisfaction the painstaking efforts the President made in picking the new ministers, their speedy screening and confirmation by the Senate, in addition to the rigorous induction of the new appointees towards acquainting them to the onerous task of assisting the President fulfill his promises of repositioning the economy, ensuring security of lives and property and fighting corruption.” “While the APC-led administration has recorded remarkable milestones in these three areas, we align with the position of the President that there is more work to be done.” “There are challenges to build on the foundations that have been laid in the last four years. To state a few, the APC-led government has an urgent task to lift Nigerians out of poverty, secure lives and property, grow our economy, build infrastructure, bring back discipline to our private and public conducts and mobilize Nigerians through personal examples towards evolving a Nigeria we all can be proud of.” “We, therefore, urge the new ministers to justify the confidence reposed in them by the President and, indeed, all Nigerians, by settling down to work quickly, and hit the ground running and consolidate on the progress that have been made in the various sectors.” Mama Taraba, Bindow dump Atiku, remain in APC Oyo: Residents alarmed over vote buying 2019: Labour Party pledges 16m votes for President Buhari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin