Some stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State yesterday called for investigation into the alleged disappearance of about N53.7 billion allegedly withdrawn in cash by governor Yahaya Bello between 2016 and 2018. The amount, according to them, was part of the over N104 billion from the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) that accrued to the state for a period of three years. The Kogi APC stakeholders in a statement issued  by its chairman, Senator Alex Usman Kadiri and a member, Elder Simon Achuba, called on the EFCC to make public, the findings of its investigation into the whereabouts of the said money allegedly withdrawn and remitted to Governor Yahaya Bello. According to them, while N104.2 billion was received from FAAC, N50.4 billion was shared by the Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC), N53.7 billion was allegedly withdrawn in cash by cronies of the governor. But reacting to the allegation, Spokesman of the governor, Kingsley Fanwo said, “It is unfortunate that Sen. Alex Kadiri has not allowed age to take writing petitions against people away from him. He has been known for writing fictitious petitions concocted to cause damage for over 40 years. “As for Elder Simon Achuba, he is a fly that is bent on entering the grave with the corpse. He has been recruited by the enemies of Kogi State and enemies of the APC for a hatchet job that is headed for doom”. “The allegations and figures bandied in the statement are politically woven to achieve an impossible end. The allegations are not only false, but ludicrous, unintelligent and not unexpected of fellows who have been contracted to ensure the defeat of APC ahead of the general elections,” he said. APC Kogi chapter gives Gov. Bello 4 weeks ultimatum to pay workers’ entitlements Kogi: Pro, anti-Bello protesters storm APC secretariat Kogi: Bello, Achuba face-off worsens Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin