The Court of Appeal in Abuja has nullified the election of Emeka Nwajuba as the member representing Ehime Mbano/Ihite-Uboma/Obowo Federal Constituency of Imo State. Nwajuba has been picked by President Muhammadu Buhari as one of his ministers. The Senate had also cleared him for the appointment and was now awaiting inauguration. A three-member panel of justices, yesterday, restored Chike Okafor as the duly elected representative for the constituency, and directed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to issue him with a certificate of return. In the lead judgment read on behalf of the panel, which included Justices Stephen Adah and Wilson Akomolafe, Justice Adamu Jauro upheld the appeal by Okafor and the All Progressives Congress (APC) as meritorious and set aside the earlier judgment of an FCT High Court in Bwari. Okafor had through his counsel, Solomon Umoh (SAN), asked the appellate court to declare that the FCT High Court, which returned Nwajuba on April 29, erred in law when it held that it had become functus officio to revisit its order. Moreover, the lawyer contended that Okafor was not joined as a party by the suit filed by an aggrieved member of the party, Mrs Chioma Mary-Ann Uzoma in the dispute with Nwajuba, and was therefore not given fair hearing before the FCT High Court in making the order which affected his interest. Following an order obtained from the high court on February 12 by Mrs Uzoma seeking to bar the party from fielding any candidate in the February 23 National Assembly election, despite Okafor being the party’s candidate and winner in the constituency, Nwajuba joined Accord Party (AP), and was consequently returned based on the nullification of APC candidates. On June 10, Okafor and the APC filed an application seeking to be joined in the matter and for the court to revisit the April 29 decision, which was refused by Justice Bello Kawu on the grounds that the court had become functus officio (lack of power to revisit) in the matter. “In the final analysis, I find that the lower court has jurisdiction to have revisited its ruling which bordered on the fundamental rights of the appellant,” Justice Jauro ruled.  Nwajiuba’s antics cost S/East speakership — Rep Okafor Imo Rep: APC, Okafor ask appeal court to sack Nwajuba Endless legal battles over Anambra Central senatorial seat Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin