The Kogi State chapter of the APC, yesterday, suspended the Deputy Governor of the state, Elder Simon Achuba, from the party for alleged anti-party activities before, during and after the 2019 general elections. The suspension came a day after the House of Assembly queried the deputy governor, heightening fear that he might be impeached before his first tenure with Gov. Yahaya Bello lapsed in a few months. The Kogi APC also based the suspension on some actions the deputy governor allegedly took that constituted embarrassment to the party and its supporters in Kogi State. The APC state Chairman, Abdullahi Bello, who disclosed this at a press conference in Lokoja, said the party had received several petitions from stakeholders in Iyano Ward of Ibaji Local Government Area where the deputy governor hailed from, alleging that Elder Achuba had “discretely and openly” worked for the candidates of the opposition parties during the presidential, national and state assembly elections in the state. Bello who stated that the State Working Committee (SEC) of the APC, having deliberated on the recommendations of the disciplinary committee of APC, Iyano Ward and Ibaji LGA, said the state’s chapter of APC resolved and upheld Elder Simon Achuba’s suspension till he responded to the letter that the party would serve him. “As we are all aware, the APC does not condone acts of indiscipline, indiscretion and anti-party activities from any party member, no matter how highly placed. “His series of reckless, damaging and unsubstantiated allegations against the Government of Kogi State is an action that constitutes a serious violation of Article 21A(ii), (v) and (vii) of the APC constitution, amounting to acts of disloyalty and embarrassment to the party,” Bello said.  Kogi APC suspends deputy governor, Achuba How Kogi dep gov emerged p13 edited Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin