The Federal Government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have domesticated and validated an Integrated Sustainable Development Goals (iSDGs) Model for policy, development planning and budgetary purposes in Nigeria. The iSDGs Model domesticated for use in Nigeria was a collaborative work of the Office of the Senior Special Assistance to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), UNDP and the Ministry of Budget and National Planning. Speaking at a validation workshop for policy makers on the iSDGs held in Abuja yesterday, the Senior Special Assistance to the President on SDGs, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, said the development placed Nigeria as one of the few countries in the world that have developed a home-grown analytical framework for integrating SDGs into national development plan. The aim was to promote SDG policy coordination and coherence by enabling decision-makers at all levels of governance and civil society stakeholders to visualize the long-term trajectory of Nigeria’s current development path; and by showing these impacts, devise and catalyze action on alternative coherent policies that help to achieve the SDGs. Orelope-Adefulire said for Nigeria to achieve the 17 goals of the SDGs, there was need for “mainstreaming and integrating the SDGs into national and sub-national development plans and annual budgets.” She said actual expenditures must align with such plans and budgets with robust and comprehensive National Statistical Information System for monitoring progress on the SDGs, which has only 11 years left before expiration.  The Permanent Secretary of the Budget Ministry, Mr Ernest Umakhihe, said the domesticated model would be mainstreamed into Nigeria’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework to align with the country’s developmental priorities. Represented by a director in the Ministry, Mr. Adeosun David, the Permanent Secretary said though the SDGs were factored into the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), the iSDGs Model would be used for future plans. He said both Vision 20:2020 and the ERGP would expire in 2020, the Ministry was in the process of developing a successor national development plan and the SDGs would be factored into the new plan. How FG uses SDG for N-East development MDGs: Nigeria to unveil end-point report to UN on Sept 25 From boardrooms to the development battlefront Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin