Ms Sa’adatu Madaki, an official of the Federal Ministry of Environment says 11 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) may be affected by 2020 if climate change is not addressed. Madaki, a Senior Scientific Officer, Department of Climate Change in the ministry made this known on Thursday in Kano at a two-day Youth Climate Innovation hub for youths in the North West. Madaki, in a presentation entitled: “Overview of Nigeria’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) and Youth Outlooks’’ said climate change had been a threat to human, environment and the economy. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY She said that up to 11 per cent of the country’s GDP might be loss by 2020 without adaption and mitigation measures to address the menace of climate change. “Climate change is threatening national development across all sectors and if not addressed, it will cause loss of agriculture and increased water scarcity. “The impact will cause damage to roads, buildings, transport and energy facilities as well as more extreme weather, floods and droughts,’’ she said. Madaki said Nigeria as a Party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in its Climate Action, had joined the global community to achieve the objective stabilising greenhouse gas. “The country has joined to stabilise greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system,’’ she said. The official, however, urged youths in the zone to come up with viable, green, practicable, bankable and innovative ideas to address the menace of Climate Change in the country. She told participants that the purpose of the meeting was to establish Youth Regional Climate Change Innovation Hub that would serve as a platform for continuous interface for the young people. “We will harvest and collate Innovations and Ideas that will be showcased at the UN Climate Action Summit in September, 2019. “The Summit would showcase ideas from youths who are actively taking climate action and leading innovative ideas in the area of climate change across Nigeria and beyond,’’ the official said. According to her, the effort will further strengthen Nigeria’s position as a country member of the United Nations’ Youth Engagement and Public Mobilisation Track at the UN Secretary General Climate Action Summit in September. Also speaking, Malam Tukur Getso, the Permanent Secretary, Kano State Ministry of Environment urged the youth to brainstorm and come up with a tangible input which would be integrated into the National Plan on Climate Change. Getso said the state had been collaborating with the Federal Government in the implementation of the Great Green Wall Project. “The state has been collaborating in the project by providing land and planting of draught resistant trees to check the effect of desert encroachment and enhance vegetation cover. “This led to the establishment of 22 kilometres of shelter belts, 20 hectares of community orchards and 17.5 hectares of woodlots on lands provided by the communities and government,’’ he said. In her remarks, Ms Ronke Eseka of Talentplus, the facilitator of the hub assured the youth that their ideas would not be jettisoned. Eseka said his organisation would partner with the Federal Government and UN Development Programme (UNDP) to ensure that their ideas would be implemented. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that no fewer than 70 participants are attending the meeting from the North-West states of Sokoto, Jigawa, Kebbi, Zamfara, Kano, Katsina and Kaduna. The hub was organised by the Ministry of Environment in partnership with the UNDP and coordinated by three Non- Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in the six geo-political zones concurrently. The NGOs are the International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI), Talentplus Initiative and Health of Mother Earth Foundation. (NAN) MDGs boss canvasses for environmental protection, sustainability Climate change puts smallscale-farmers in hotspot CLIMATE CHANGE: A 2 degrees warmer Nigeria Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin