The Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, has assured that the state government-owned Integrated Rice Mill at Imota, a suburb of mainland Lagos, will be completed within the next seven months. Lawal disclosed this yesterday during his facility tour of the mill to assess the progress of work being done there. He expressed satisfaction with the quality of work done so far. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The Commissioner added that the Imota Rice Mill, upon completion, would not only ensure that people eat nutritious rice, it would also create jobs and wealth for the people, as well as enhance the supply value-chain. Lawal, who was accompanied on the inspection tour by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Agriculture, Ms Abisola Olusanya and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Dr Olayiwole Onasanya, disclosed that the 32-metric tonne capacity mill was the biggest in West Africa. He recalled that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had, during the electioneering campaign, promised to continue with projects left by his predecessor. Lawal noted that though the mill should be able to cater to the rice needs of a substantial percentage of Lagos residents, it was a far cry from meeting the rice needs of the entire people. He attributed the realisation necessitated the state government’s collaborating with other states in the Southwest and North, as well as with the Rice Farmers Association (REFAN) for the acquisition of rice paddy. The Commissioner explained that the Lagos State government was also discussing with some other states that had promised to make available about 72,000 hectares of land in their states for rice cultivation. “The 2017/2018 report from REFAN showed that they have the capacity to produce 10 million tonnes of rice. But as at today, only two million is being utilised in 30 integrated rice mills that are available, leaving a shortfall of 8 million. But going forward, l see opportunities, I see jobs, I see wealth being created, and I see better nutrition,” he said. Lagos urges students to embrace agric  business Lagos rice mill to begin operation this year — Sanwo-Olu Buhari to inaugurate, chair National Food Security Council Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin