The wife of the Lagos State governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has called on Nigerians to embrace unity and mutual cooperation, saying such virtues remain critical to engender peace and prosperity. Mrs Sanwo-Olu made the call at a special Eid-El-Kabir get-together organised by the state government at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. According to Dr Sanwo-Olu, it has become expedient for citizens to draw lessons from the significance of the festive season to always uphold peace, help the needy and have abiding faith in God. She recalled that the Eid-El-Kabir celebration was in remembrance of the command given by Allah to Prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his son. She added that the fulfillment of the noble command of Allah to Ibrahim is worthy of being emulated. “This act symbolizes our willingness to give up things that are of benefit to us or close to our hearts, in order to follow Allah’s commandments. It also symbolizes our willingness to give up some of our own bounties, in order to strengthen ties of friendship and help those who are in need.” We recognize that all blessings come from Allah, and we should open our hearts and share with others. “The symbolism is in the attitude, a willingness to make sacrifices in our lives in order to stay on the straight path. Each of us makes small sacrifices, giving up things that are fun or important to us,” she said. In his lecture, titled, ‘The celebration on the four golden lessons of Eid-El-Kabir’, the National Amir of The Muslim Congress (TMC), Dr Luqman AbdulRaheem, said the season was basically reminding the people of the need to have sound faith in Allah, submission to His will, nation building and hospitality.  Sanwo-Olu greets Muslims at eid el fitri Eid-el-Fitr: Sanwo-Olu hosts Muslim community LASG to release hotlines for potholes, quick road rehabilitation – Sanwo-Olu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin