The Director General of Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office (MCO), Mr Obadiah Nkom, has commended the Governor of Kwara State Abdulrahman Abdulrazak for his interest in mining and solid minerals development of the state. Engr. Nkom said this while receiving Governor Abdulrazak who paid a courtesy visit to the MCO in Abuja recently. The DG, in a statement, assured the governor of support towards the development of minerals in the state, adding that the agency is saddled with the responsibilities to administer mineral titles in the country. “Licenses are evidently deliverables of the Mining Cadastre Office with the key objective of ensuring the mining development in the states and Nigeria at large,” he said. He pointed out that the objective of the MCO is to ensure mining development in all states of the federation by way of issuance of mineral titles. Governor Abdulrazak, who appreciated the warm reception at a short notice, explained that the visit was to engage the Mining Cadastre Office for appropriate support on how to move Kwara State forward in mineral development. He further disclosed the state’s readiness to work in close collaboration with the Federal Government towards improving its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), infrastructural development and wealth creation. He added that there is need to drive the Kwara State Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to improve mining activities and investment, saying by that, more employment opportunities would be created for the teeming youth as well as diversifying from the present mono-economy.   ‘No nation can achieve industrialisation without its mineral wealth’ FG restates commitment to secure lives of miners Support mining activities in your area, MCO tells communities Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin