The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) has said it is working with other stakeholders to transform some rural areas across the country by 2050. The NESG CEO, Laoye Jaiyeola, disclosed this when he led some other executives of the group on a courtesy visit to Media Trust Limited in Abuja yesterday. ‘’Part of our commitment is to ensure that the rural areas have access to water, electricity and good roads, and Micro, Small Medium Enterprises (MSME) that would help the areas develop further. We are currently working with local governments on this,” Jaiyeola said. He said the Group had been working with state chambers  of commerce to ensure agricultural reforms in the rural areas across the country. “We also engage in agriculture which we are working on with the chambers of commerce. We are trying to increase the level of agricultural reforms’’, he said. He also the NESG also focused on industries on three accelerators: construction, human capital and production. ‘’If we can be able to implement these accelerators we will achieve our target by the year 2050’’ he added. On its forthcoming annual summit scheduled to hold on 7th to 8th October this year, Mr Laoye said this year’s summit with the theme, ‘’ Nigeria 2050: Shifting Gears’’ is intended to set off a new agenda for Nigeria to mark a critical strategic shift to a private sector-led economy by 2050. He said the NESG has, through its annual Nigerian Economic Summit (NES), increased public and private discourse on various economic programmes and also helped to formulate policies that had driven economic change over the years. NESG is a nonprofit, partisan organization with the mandate to promote and champion the reform of the Nigerian economy into an open, private sector-led economy that is globally competitive on a sustainable basis.  Nigerian Economic Summit: 21 years of more talk, less action Economic summit to focus on 2050 population prediction - NESG No economic growth without trans-border trade – FG Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin