Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West) and PDP governorship aspirant for the November 16 election has vowed to end hunger and hardship if given opportunity to govern the state. Melaye spoke, yesterday, in Lokoja in pursuit of his aspiration to govern the state. The senator, who first met with party exco at the party secretariat in Lokoja, also visited the NUJ press centre where he presented his blueprint comprising his mission and vision for the state. Melaye said his desire to govern the state was not only to rescue it from the incumbent but to build a ‘New Kogi’ that would be ruled by ideas. He also said he had his eyes set on the presidency in 2027, stressing that the governorship struggle was just a stepping stone to his presidential ambition. He said: “Kogi State is not witnessing democracy, what we are witnessing is government of the greedy, by the greedy and for the greedy; best put as ‘greedocracy’. “But when I come on board as governor, I shall build a new Kogi State where ideas will revolutionise the state. “My administration will banish hunger from the state. Kogi has no business to be poor. I shall look into agriculture and technology to turn around the economic fortune of the state.” Melaye said amongst the aspirants in PDP, he remained the best and most experienced to rescue the state from the present occupant. “I have no father, uncle, in-law or godfathers to pilot my ambition, but I have the requisite requirements to face the APC candidate in the election. “I fear no body, I only respect human beings. I have been arrested 18 times within the last three years and I have 12 cases in court, but I’m still standing. I have what it takes to face and rescue the state from Yahaya Bello,” he added. My administration will end hunger in Kogi – Dino Melaye Inside Kogi power struggle: How Bello, Dino fell out Police parade two notorious suspects, indicts Senator Dino Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin