An Abuja-based nongovernmental organisation, Helpline Foundation for the Needy, has empowered 85 vulnerable women and youths with working tools as part of activities to mark the 2019 International Youth Day celebration in Abuja. The foundation also used the occasion to dole out food items to widows drawn from selected clusters across the six area councils of the territory to mark the Eid el-Kabir celebration. Speaking at the occasion, the president and founder of Helpline Foundation for the Needy, Dr. Jummai Ahmad, said the programme was organised in partnership with Right Care Empowerment Foundation and Make a Difference for the Needy Foundation, and that the working tools were donated by the FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). She tasked government at all levels and relevant organisations to go beyond funfairs that characterized festivities and use such occasions to empower the vulnerable in the society. Dr. Jummai said youth empowerment is the only means to crime reduction. “It has been our tradition for over 17 years to seize every opportunity and occasion to put smiles on the faces of the less privileged, especially women and youth. “We have been consistent in assisting the vulnerable and this year’s International Youth Day, we decided to empower some youths in various skills to grow their businesses. “It has been our philosophy and our slogan that “nobody is too poor to give and nothing is too small to give”. In that token, we approach our partners to put something together for our women and youths for this year’s International Youth Day. “We should move beyond funfair to empowerment of the vulnerable in the society. And I think it is the right way to go,” she stated. One of the beneficiaries, Emmanuel Ekele, expressed gratitude for the gesture, assuring that the working tools will aid him in no small measure to improve on his mechanic skill. Our correspondent reports that some of the items distributed included sewing machines, tools box for both mechanics and electricians and grinding machines among others. Foundation supports 250 widows, orphans Group donates food items to widows Foundation marks widows’ day, empowers 200 in Abuja Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin