The management of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has said its massive investment on facilities maintenance and network expansion is a deliberate effort to improve power supply within its franchise areas. Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna (Sardaunan Gombe), Managing Director of KEDCO, stated this in a statement by the Head, Corporate Communication, KEDCO, Ibrahim Sanni Shawai. According to Gwamna, the move is a conscious effort by KEDCO to ensure that all issues emanating from poor maintenance and obsolete facilities which may lead to system collapse are addressed. “We are leading the cause in terms of constant maintenance of power equipment and facilities to ensure we live up to our promise to distributing quality and constant power to our customers in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states. “We have a target to be the best distribution company in Nigeria and such can’t be if we remain redundant. This is why we are doing all necessary to upgrade by scaling up on all areas that require overhauling and maintenance of all installations to complement the effort of the Federal Government to improve power supply in the country. “The Federal Government is doing its best to boost power supply through generation and transmission and this is our way of complementing the effort of the government so that our customers and other stakeholders enjoy the benefit of the reform in the sector,” he said. The Kano DisCo boss decried acts of vandalism, theft and sabotage of power installations which, is noted, are affecting KEDCO and other distribution companies. Gwamna said: “This is one economic loss that every DisCo will have to grapple with whenever it occurs and such losses cause huge financial burden on the DisCos and that may force them into precarious financial positions to meet up sometimes.” While calling on host communities to assist in forestalling any issue of vandalism and theft, the KEDCO MD called on their numerous customers to settle their outstanding bills. KEDCO had on August 7, announced that over N148.63 billion outstanding electricity bills were yet to be settled by its customers. Our investment on facilities maintenance, network expansion deliberate — KEDCO MD KEDCO appeals to customers to pay N148bn unsettled bills KEDCO@ 5: Achievements, challenges and future plans Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin