No fewer than 1,000 people have so far benefited from a free surgical intervention offered by the Lagos State government, in collaboration with a non-governmental organisation, Boskoh Lagos Healthcare Mission. The intervention covered orthopaedic surgery, eye  surgery, dental procedure, and ear, nose and throat surgery, among others. The intervention, an off-shoot of the free screening exercise conducted in designated primary health centres across the state, is being done simultaneously in seven general hospitals. According to the Executive Director of Boskoh Lagos Healthcare Mission, Mrs Nike Osai, over 88 eye surgeries had been carried out at the Orile Agege General Hospital, while over 120 surgeries had so far been done at the Onikan General Hospital. Osai added that over 300 cases were being treated at the General Hospital, Lagos, while surgeries were ongoing at the Badagry and Epe general hospitals. The wife of the Lagos State governor, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, who visited beneficiaries of the free medical intervention in five of the centres, expressed delight over the impact the interventions had had in the lives of beneficiaries. Sanwo-Olu said, “I have gone round five general hospitals to observe what had been done in the past few days. I was at the Massey Street Children’s Hospital, Lagos General Hospital, Onikan General Hospital, Gbagada General Hospital and the Orile-Agege General Hospital. I must say that I am impressed with the surgeries that were being done. It is, indeed, heart-warming that the beneficiaries of these free surgical interventions were also quite appreciative.”  Day Lagosians got  free health care service Fog hangs over status of Lagos cardiac, renal centre Day FMC Yola separated conjoined twins for second time Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin