The Federal Government says about 131,000 women and 373,000 children under five years will enjoy free basic healthcare in the next nine months in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Alhaji Abdullahi Mashi, made the disclosure at the launch of the Basic HealthCare Provision Fund for the FCT at Kuchigoro Primary Health Care Centre in Abuja on Wednesday. He said FCT residents would benefit from basic healthcare services worth N224 million over the next nine months. He added that “the amount is equivalent to payment for the management of 131,000 pregnant women for normal deliveries and 373,000 under-five childhood illnesses or 280,000 malaria cases.” The permanent secretary said, “in addition, 62 public sector facilities will become truly functional following the launch of the fund. Mashi said the launch was a demonstration of the commitment of the FCT Administration to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC). He said 70 per cent of total health expenditure in the country is borne out of pocket, which is far higher than the globally acceptable rate of 30 to 40 per cent and remains a barrier to accessing healthcare. He added that “the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to reversing this ugly situation and promoting shared prosperity. With the launch of this fund, I am convinced that we will turn the tide on this.” Prof. Mohammed Sambo, Executive Secretary, National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), said the scheme would work with the State Health Insurance schemes to purchase healthcare services from designated healthcare facilities for the benefit of enrollees. He said “let me assure you that under my watch as the chief accounting officer of the NHIS, all funds entrusted under my care for the provision of these health services will be judiciously used as prescribed in the programme guidelines to improve the health status of Nigerians.” (NAN)  FG, USAID launch health systems, PHC strengthening project ‘FCTA commits N100m for provision of basic healthcare’ What second devt plan, basic fund hold for Nigerian health sector Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin