Tottenham Hotspur ended Manchester City’s European ambitions last season and they will be looking to dent Pep Guardiola’s side’s hopes of winning a third successive Premier League title when they meet at the Etihad Stadium on Saturday. A rare setback in a near impeccable season from City came in April with a dramatic exit to Spurs in the Champions League quarterfinal. City won the second-leg 4-3 but went out on away goals after a late goal from Raheem Sterling, which would have sent City through, was dramatically ruled out for offside following a VAR video review. Just three days later the pair met again in the league as Guardiola’s side kept their title run on track with a 1-0 victory. Both teams began their Premier League campaigns in winning fashion with City sweeping aside West Ham United with a 5-0 win at London Stadium while Spurs struggled before emerging as 3-1 victors at home to promoted Aston Villa. City will be relieved that Spurs’ South Korean winger Son Heung-min will miss the game while he serves a three-game suspension. Son scored the only goal of the Champions League first leg and struck twice in the second-leg but Harry Kane, who missed the last two meetings, has begun the season in form with a double against Villa. Liverpool will need to recover quickly from their penalty shootout win over Chelsea in the Super Cup in Istanbul on Wednesday as they face a trip to Southampton on Saturday. Jurgen Klopp’s side began the season well with a 4-1 win over Norwich City but are without their first-choice keeper Alisson Becker who picked up a calf injury in that opener. Revenge for City as Foden sinks Spurs Man City face Spurs again with title pressure on Leicester, Spurs, Arsenal win in explosive EPL week 25 encounters Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin