The new minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba has urged staff of the ministry to work harder and smart to realize the Next Level agenda of federal government. Agba stated this on Wednesday during a welcome reception in his honour by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary and directors in Abuja. He said the President’s mood towards realization of Next Level agenda was quite explicit and understandable  as he had made it clear  that  a lot of work need to be done to achieve the set goals of the administration as well as meeting the target of submitting 2020 budget estimate to National Assembly by September this year. He also charged the staff of the ministry to work together towards achieving the ministry’s mandate. “It is quite understandable reading the mood of President, he has made it very clear to us that there are a whole lots of work to be done and he needs the budget to be before the national Assembly in September. “That means for this ministry in particular, we do have a lot of work to do. I can see we have very capable hands to do the work. The only way to succeed is or us to work together. “I believe in the power of team, together, everybody can achieve much. We are as weak as weakest link that we have. We need to work very smart, we need to be agile in the way we take our decisions. You bare the teachers; I am your humble student. Let us work together to ensure we are able to move our economy and country to Next level,’’ he said. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Ernest Umakhihe who took the minister through the mandate of the ministry told the minister that one of the major achievements of the immediate past dispensation was in ensuring the stability and growth of the Nigerian economy when it went into recession, which was done through the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, ERGP. I won’t tolerate indiscipline; Agric minister warns Nigerians set target as ministers get portfolios FG: We are running late  on 2016 budget Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin