The Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Abdulrahman Ajiya, has appointed 29 members of his cabinet three months after he assumed office for his second term. Ajiya, who made the announcement through his chief of staff, Alhaji Zubairu Ajiya, yesterday, said the 43 cabinet members comprised of six supervisory councillors, six senior special advisers, 14 special advisers and 12 special assistants. He gave the names of the cabinet members as Mr. Sunday Tukura, Alhaji Shuaibu Abdullahi Tanko, Alhaji Muhammad Angulu Bello,  Isah Ahmad Amshaga, Alhaji Hassan Nakoji, Abdulkadir Yahaya Mamagi and Alhaji Muhammad Musa. Others include, Muhammad Yakubu Rimba, Tanko Alfa, Hajiya Hawakulu  Bako, Barrister Haruna Yakubu Gana and Malam Ado Isa. The 14 special advisers are, Isah Makkah, Salihu Gimba Bako, Nasiru Sani, Usman Sufyan, Yusuf Bala Shawai, Alhaji Yakubu M. Naira, Alhaji Yakubu Uwo, Hajiya Hasana Alfa, Alhaji Mohammed Haruna Yaba, Alhaji Zakari Ya’u Naharati, Hajiya Zainab Muhammad, Mohammed Rabiu Alhassan, Chinedu Omeke and Jibrin Alhassan Yatsu. The special assistants are Abdulkadir luqman Mijji, Hamza Aminu, Muhammed Ibrahim Audu, Zabutu Danlami, Haruna Samson Kara, Emmanuel Olufemi Amoko, Alhaji Adamu brother, Yakubu Gawu and Dauda Dangana Guide. Also included are, Idris Fatima Pandagi, Abdullahi Ashiru Adamu, Jonathan Agyana, Attahiru Tailor, Madam Peter, Halidu Aliyu Ebagi, Saidu Gbamgbada Agyana and Hadiza Naharati. The chairman said names of 12 out of the 43 nominees would be forwarded to the legislative arm of the council for screening and confirmation today after which they would be inaugurated and assigned portfolios.  Kuje chair appoints secretary, 13 other cabinet members Much is expected from you, Abaji boss tells cabinet members FCT polls: Abaji APC chairman resigns, seeks to contest election Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin