The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23, 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar has demanded a judicial commission of inquiry headed by a non-partisan and reputable jurist, to probe the alleged burial of 1,000 soldiers killed by the Boko Haram insurgents. Atiku, a former Vice President argued that the alleged cover-up of the deaths of one thousand soldiers was a national emergency that should shock all statesmen and leaders of thoughts into action to save Nigeria. In a statement on Thursday by his Media Office, Atiku said Nigerians deserve to know the truth of the matter, adding he was shocked that such could happen under a democratic regime. He advised that the panel of inquiry should comprise distinguished former military officers in order to investigate and report to Nigerians the true state of the war on terror and what must be done to ensure Nigeria brings a speedy end to the ongoing insurgency. “I read the report by the Wall Street Journal that over a thousand Nigerian soldiers have been secretly buried at night by the General Muhammadu Buhari led administration, in order to hide the true state of the war on terror, with a sense of heartbreak and shock. “Heartbreak for the families and friends of those soldiers who, if the report is true, have lost their loved ones, without being allowed to bury them or even to have any sense of closure as regards their fate. “Shock, that such a thing could happen under a democracy, such as Nigeria is supposed to be. I shudder to think that the cover-up of such an event of epic proportions can be true. “The men and women of our armed forces are our first, second and last defence against our domestic and foreign enemies and should be treated with love, respect, dignity and appreciation for the invaluable service they render to Nigeria. “I cannot fathom that in the space of a year, 1000 of these great patriots were killed and buried secretly without their families being told. I hesitate to believe that deceit on such a grand scale is even possible. “To ensure that we get to the bottom of this matter, I urge that a Judicial Commission of Inquiry headed by a non-partisan and reputable jurist, be inaugurated to investigate the findings of the Wall Street Journal. “Nigeria must ensure prudent use of finances, so we can redistribute national resources in such a way that ensures that our military and security forces are well armed and well remunerated,” he said. Atiku to Buhari: You are the problem, not Nigerian system Atiku asks FG to probe $1bn security budget Presidential poll: Agbakoba urges Atiku to shun tribunal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin