The FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is considering temporary closure of some roads that lead to flood flashpoints in Galadimawa, Lokogoma and possibly Area 1 Roundabout, Garki. The agency also urged residents to avoid the flashpoints during heavy downpour and appealed to residents to understand that the road blockage will be for a short period of time as other relevant agencies are coming up with lasting solutions to resolve the perennial flooding problem in the territory. The Director General of FEMA, Alhaji Abbas Idriss, said the call was in view of  loss of lives and property in recent times, and revealed that plans have been concluded to organise emergency stakeholders’ forum on flood mitigation and response coordination in the FCT. “We are mapping out strategies to avoid further waste of lives and property within flood plain areas. And one of such strategies is to temporarily block some of the roads that lead to these flashpoints in Galadimawa, Lokogoma and possibly Area 1 Roundabout. “We are taking this measure because some motorists underestimate the strength of water and the danger it poses. To us as an agency saddled with the responsibility of saving lives and property, the temporary closure of such identified routes has become paramount because it is better to travel a longer distance and get to your destinations in safe condition than to take a shortcut that will eventually lead to death.” Idriss, who commiserated with the family of last week’s flood victim, also called on residents to call the emergency toll free number, 112, during emergency situations. He assured that the  rescue team was working around the clock aimed at saving lives and property. The DG expressed concern that though the FCT is not on the list of flashpoint states, the recent developments call for urgent solution, and called on residents to stop dumping of refuse in drainage. Lokogoma residents seek FCTA’s support to prevent flood FCTA to conduct infrastructural assessment in Lokogoma The Lokogoma demolitions: In fairness to FCT administration Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin