Three robbers operating on Ogun Long Bridge, Isheri, Ojodu-Berger and Agidingbi-Ikeja, who were yesterday arrested by operatives of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS), confessed they have lost count of the number of phones and jewelleries they had stolen from people in traffic. The suspects were arrested while allegedly robbing a lady of her belongings. Two android phones, believed they had stolen, were retrieved from them. The suspects – Issa Jidda, 15; Alli Jumah, 22, and Adamu Mohammed, 22 – were arrested on Saturday at about 8.46pm on Olowopopo Way, Ikeja, after allegedly robbing two ladies in Agidingbi (Ikeja) and Isheri. According to one of the suspects, Jidda, the gang had been operating in Ogun Long Bridge, Isheri, Unilag Estate, Gateway Estate, Ojodu-Berger, Fela Shrine and Agidingbi since May 2019. “I was invited into the gang by Adamu. He is the leader of the gang. I have gone out on robberies with them seven times.  Our targets are mobile phones, wallets and jewelries. “We also rob in traffic, especially on the Long Bridge. We avoid operating in Kara because we live there. Our colleagues might see us. We sell the phones and share the money. “The motorcycle that we use is owned by Alli. The three of us operate on it using a knife and dagger as our arms,” the primary school dropout added. The police were arrested by an RRS patrol team after it responded to a distress call that some robbers on a motorcycle were operating in Agidingbi. The officers trailed the robbers to Olowopopo Way, where a motorist who got a hint that the suspects were being chased, hit their motorcycle to prevent them from escaping onto the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The owners of the two android phones snatched at Isheri and Agidingbi had identified the suspects. 4 fraudsters operating as cab drivers arrested How gift to mum exposed an armed robbery suspect Police burst international car theft ring Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin