Plateau State Governor and Chairman, Northern Governor’s Forum (NGF), has warned people he described as “rumour mongers and mischief makers” not to bring discussions of 2023 to him, saying that leadership is for God to decide. Lalong sounded the warning while hosting a reception in Abuja to honour the newly inaugurated Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen. “Don’t come to my house to talk about 2023. In 2013, many of us did not know we are going to be where we are today,” Lalong said. “If God wants you to be something in 2023, he will give it to you. You don’t need to pitch people against each other and bring down others. You don’t need to struggle,” he said. Daily Trust reports that the reception to honour Tallen puts to rest insinuations in the state that the governor was bitter over her appointment as minister and was yet to congratulate her. Lalong, in a statement issued by his Director of Press Affairs, Makut Simon Macham, urged politicians in the state to shun politics of division, intrigues, gossip and bitterness which, he said, could only led to more polarization and instability. The statement quoted the governor as saying, “in life, God has a purpose for everybody; it may be your time and it may not be your time. But if you are patient, your time will come. Sometimes you struggle for it but will not get it, and sometimes you don’t struggle for it, and God will give it to you on a platter of gold.” In her reaction, the newly appointed Women Affairs minister assured Lalong of her support. She stated that she was not unmindful of attempts by some persons to engineer crisis for their selfish interests. “I will never give in to them,” the statement quoted Tallen as saying, while stressing that her interest was to serve the people of Plateau State and the country and carry out the task given to her by President Muhammadu Buhari. Tallen's senate ambition meant to divide APC in Plateau South – Group Interest groups likely to influence Lalong Tallen assures APC of victory in Plateau guber elections Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin