The PDP has cautioned the ruling APC and the Presidency not to use federal resources to rig the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. PDP also asked INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to “redeem the commission’s battered image” by conducting free, fair and credible elections in the two states. Speaking with newsmen, yesterday in Abuja, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, argued that the PDP stakeholders in the two states were united on a common agenda of winning the elections. Ologbondiyan said the people of Kogi were already in search of who would rescue them from the “APC’s bad governance,” adding that the PDP would not repeat the mistake of the past that led to its defeat in 2015 in the state. The PDP image maker also dispelled allegation that the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, was interfering in the Bayelsa governorship primaries scheduled for September 3. “If there are grievances, aspirants and members should follow the due process rather than making frivolous allegations,” the spokesman said. “In Bayelsa, we will advise the APC and Presidency not to waste tax-payers’ money and not to waste their time campaigning because Bayelsa is a traditional home of the PDP. “As a matter of fact, if there is anything today, we will advise Governor Bello to begin to write his handover note in Kogi State because Kogi was a traditional home of the PDP. “Kogi people have seen suicided; they have seen suffering, they have seen looting so they are ready to vote out Bello. The APC is planning to impose him again like they did in 2015, but this will not work this time,” he alleged. Dickson warns against rigging in Bayelsa, Kogi polls PDP alleges plot to disrupt Kogi, Bayelsa governorship elections PDP NEC pegs Kogi, Bayelsa guber nomination form at 20m Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin