The Director General (DG) of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman, has chided the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for allegedly “diminishing fortunes of the party.” Lukman took a swipe on Oshiomhole in a letter titled: “APC: Appeal for Reconciliation”, dated August 6, 2019, and addressed to the party’s chairman. “As a loyal party member, I have difficulty reconciling the absence of meetings of superior organs given all the challenges the party is going through, warranting the suspension of three serving governors (two of them now senators) and two members of NWC,” Lukman said. Assessing Oshiomhole’s leadership, Lukman declared that, “My distant observation is that there is hardly any difference between your approach in managing the party and the way Chief Oyegun managed it during his tenure. “Instead, things have really got worse, and painfully, it would appear, you are in denial of this reality,” he said. Referring to earlier efforts he made to draw the party chairman’s attention to the growing problems in the party, he said, “Kindly recall that sometime in June this year, I sent what I called a private memo on the issues of reported disciplinary actions against Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State by the National Working Committee (NWC). “Of course, the memo noted that before the 2019 elections, the NWC had similarly suspended former Governors Rochas Okorocha and lbikunle Amosun of Imo and Ogun states respectively. Between June and now, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, APC Deputy National Chairman (North), and Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, APC National Vice Chairman (North West), have also been similarly suspended. “It would appear that the leadership problems facing the party are getting deeper, and in the circumstances, the business of building the party will be sacrificed. “We had challenges that deprived our party the opportunity to contest the 2019 elections in Rivers, stripped our party of electoral victory in Zamfara, engendered highest levels of leadership animosities in Imo, Ogun, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ondo, Oyo, etc. “Today, with Kogi and Edo elections approaching, similar leadership animosities are defining political life of the party in those states. Since emerging as the national chairman of our party, I have had cause to review decisions and actions you have taken as the national chairman and often I have difficulty reconciling many of the decisions and actions you took with the leadership standards you upheld,” he said. Oshiomhole under pressure as APC govs weigh options Election aftermath: Oshiomhole in fresh trouble Resolving Edo State democracy meltdown: Please Oshiomhole, blink! Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin