Two lucky Nigerians, 64-year-old bricklayer, Mr. Iyowun Ezekiel and 20-year-old artisan, Godwin Godday, have emerged the latest winners of the Star prize GAC Saloon cars in the ongoing Dangote Cement ‘Bag of Goodies’ national consumer promo. Elated Ezekiel, who is based in Ijebu-ode, Ogun State and has been a bricklayer for over 40 years, found his prize-winning scratch card in one of Dangote’s cement promo bags he bought from a distributor in Ijebu-Mushin. Godday, who is the youngest winner of the Star prize so far, found his winning scratch card in Ikorodu, Lagos.  Both star prize winners were given the keys to their new cars by top Dangote Cement officials at different handing-over ceremonies in Ijebu-ode and Ikorodu, alongside 10 other lucky promo winners, who carted home various prizes including a tricycle, a motorcycle, eight refrigerators and two television sets; to the admiration of other Dangote Cement consumers, distributors and the general public. Handing over the car keys to Ezekiel in Ijebu-ode, National Sales Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. Adeyemi Fajobi, told those gathered at the Local Government office venue that the cement promo is real and that there are many more choice prizes to be won. The National Sales Director added, “Only Dangote can do this. This is a promise fulfilled. Some people were skeptical when this promo began but today, this is proof of our sincerity.” Also, Regional Director, Lagos/Ogun, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. Tunde Mabogunje, while handing over the various prizes in Ikorodu, said excited consumers have been coming forward to collect their prizes in the ongoing promo. The lucky star prize winner, who said he has been a bricklayer for over 40 years, expressed profound gratitude to Aliko Dangote and Dangote Cement company for the promo. The Dangote Cement ‘Bag of Goodies’ promo, which began nationwide in July and is to run till September ending, has so far yielded numerous winners of prizes in various categories. Among other gifts, a total of 43 new cars, cash prizes of N200 million, 24 tricycles, 500 refrigerators, 24 motorcycles, 400 television sets, generators, Goodies packs, are available for winners in a promo, with over 21 million lucky winners targeted.  Dangote Cement promo: Winners emerge in Edo, Osogbo, others 21m winners to emerge from Dangote cement promo Retailer wins car in Dangote Cement consumer promo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin