The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of MBA Forex and Capital Investment Limited, Maxwell Odum said with proper exploration of the foreign exchange market potentials, Nigeria can tame poverty and reduce unemployment. Odum made the disclosure at a briefing on a business summit, tagged: “From Bare2Blue” revolution in Lagos. The Managing Director said if the market is regulated from the inside and investors’ money protected better by government regulatory body which will boost the investors’ confidence in the market; the next level for Nigerians is assured in terms of financial stability. “MBA FOREX is changing the narratives, by pushing for regulation of forex companies coming into Nigeria. This will help in putting a check on fraudulent activities relating to Forex trade and also protect Nigerians by ensuring that people go into forex through right channels. “We want the market regulated because we want those in FOREX trade to follow the right path, not getting their hands burnt, because a lot of fraudulent activities is going on in FOREX market and has made many people to become sceptical about the business,” he said. Odum warned Nigerians not to see forex trading as gambling, citing his firm, MBA Forex and Capital Investment Limited as an example of a company that is well respected in this regard because it is registered and certified by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN. “In MBA we trade averagely 6.5 trillion US$ daily. We have the expertise and knowledge. We have what it takes to navigate into profit. For over two years we have being consistent in getting lives changed through the FOREX market,” he said. Firms unveil financial investment plans for Nigerians Democracy Day Special: Forex crisis, dwindling investments defined banking sector Nigeria not visible in global Forex — Experts Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin