The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Thursday handed over a 13 bedroom, one-storey building and a basement, forfeited by the late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, to the management of the North East Development Commission (NEDC). EFCC acting spokesman, Tony Orilade, in a statement said the property was forfeited on the order of the court, following the prosecution of the late former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) for money laundering and corruption by the EFCC. He said the building located at No 6, Ogun River Street, Maitama, Abuja,  was handed over to NEDC management by the EFCC Director of Operations, Muhammed Abbah Umar, who represented the Acting Chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Magu. “I wish to congratulate the management and staff of the NEDC on taking the ownership of this beautiful edifice. I equally want to implore the commission to put the property into maximum use for the benefit of the staff of the commission and the country at large,” Magu stated in his remarks. The EFCC boss stated that the EFCC was unwaveringly committed to continuing to living up to its constitutional mandate of riding the country of corruption, by applying diligence in its investigation and prosecution. He noted that the commission will not rest on its oars in tracing and recovering looted funds and properties procured with proceeds of crime. Responding to the gesture, the chairman of the commission, Major General Paul Tarfa (Rtd), appreciated the gesture and promised to cooperate with the EFCC and the federal government in the fight against corruption. “We are grateful to the federal government and EFCC for allowing us to use this place permanently as office or liaison office, here in Abuja. “We appreciate this gesture because we understand that ministries and other departments and agencies have been trying to get this place but because of the importance government attaches to NEDC, we are glad that we have been considered for this. “So, we thank you because without the cooperation of the EFCC, and the support of the government, other ministries would have gotten it. Please, convey our gratitude to the Chairman of the EFCC,” Tarfa said. Speaking further, he expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for considering NEDC the most appropriate agency of government to be allocated the edifice. EFCC hands over Badeh’s forfeited property to VON Arms deal: EFCC detains Badeh How Badeh was forced to recant on last day in court Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin