Some elders and stakeholders in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have started deliberations on uniting original inhabitants to ensure sustainable development in the territory. The elders met to proffer solutions to issues affecting the natives which included federal appointments, ministerial slot and political and administrative structure of the territory. The elders, in a statement signed by Dr Salisu Zuba, said the only way political and development desire of the natives could be achieved was when they are united in purpose for solution. They said the appointment of a native into the Federal Executive Council as a minister would lift the long perceived marginalisation of the original inhabitants. They said the All Progressives Congress (APC) also stood to gain from that. “We are much aware and still alive to testify the legacy and grassroots achievements by President Muhammadu Buhari, which we unanimously wish to state that, all hope is not lost that the president will still consider an indigene of the FCT for the position of minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We the elders can best describe President Buhari as an epitome of consistency, trustworthiness, honesty and responsibility as far as the FCT project and politics are concerned and we believe that he will not fail FCT natives. With this unity meeting, sustainable development to the FCT people and stakeholders at large will be actualised,” they said. Among the elders at the meeting was Amb. Ayuba Jacob Ngbako, Dr Baka, Ibrahim Abubakar, and Amb. Esther John Audu. Others are Haruna Halilu, Dr Aboki Zhawa, Alh. Maigoro Ishaku, General A.B. Maman (rtd), Alhaji Mohammed Kuchazi, and Sen. Dan Iyakwo.  Abuja natives want reparation and development commission Abuja natives to Buhari: Scrap land swap immediately Ministerial slot: A case for the FCT ‘original’ inhabitants Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin