Police in Kaduna on Wednesday dispelled a report titled ‘Muslim community in Kaduna burns young Igbo boy alive,’ saying the report was fabricated. The police, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, DSP Yakubu Sabo, called on the good people of Kaduna state and indeed Nigeria to disregard the story as fake callously aimed at causing disaffection among Nigerians on the basis of tribe or religion. According to the statement, “The attention of the Kaduna State Police Command has been drawn to a story published today, 14th August, 2019 on Nairaland Forum – an online Media, captioned ‘Muslim Community in Kaduna Burns Young Igbo Boy Alive’ about a purported scenario that an Igbo boy was allegedly burnt for urinating in a gutter close to a perimeter wall of a mosque in the state capital. “The writer consciously avoided giving details of the location and name of people involved to paint his fictitious story. “The Command wishes to state that, there was no report of such incident and the story is entirely a fabricated, maliciously intended to incite crisis and create fear in the minds of unsuspecting citizens. “The Command therefore, calls on the good people of Kaduna State and indeed Nigeria to disregard the story as fake callously aimed at causing disaffection among Nigerians on the basis of tribe or religion.” He warned such trouble makers to desist from making inciting publication that is capable of undermining the peace currently being enjoying in the state and to remind the public that, such act is criminal and punishable under the nation’s laws. He noted that the command will not hesitate to allow heavy burden of the law to bear aggressively on any person or group of persons who are hell-bent at causing disharmony or civil unrest in the state under any guise. Alleged kidnap of 30 people along Abuja-Kaduna expressway, fake news- Police IPOB crisis: How hosts prevented reprisals Kaduna: Youths accuse pastor of murder, church set ablaze Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin