The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says it is building robust broadband infrastructure across the country to boost internet connectivity that make tech startups to thrive and thereby drive economic growth. NCC ‘s Executive Vice Chairman Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta who said yesterday in Lagos during the Nigeria Innovation Summit 2019 added that the deficit in broadband infrastructure was being addressed and the country would soon witness a boom in internet connectivity. Danbatta, who was represented by the NCC Director, Research and Development, Mr Ephraim Nwokenneya, said Information and Communication Technology (ICT) was advancing daily in the country. He said that the advancement was throwing up innovative technologies that organisations and businesses must leverage on to remain relevant and be competitive in their spheres of operations. ”NCC is a regulator with passion for innovation and has been driving digital transformation with regard to investment drive in telecommunications/broadband infrastructure, which is key to encouraging any technology innovation. ”No doubt, we have infrastructure gap, and to bridge this gap, the commission has licensed six Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos), one each in the six geo-political zones of the country. ”The seventh one – for the North-Central region – is being processed by the commission. ”This will later be backed up with disbursement of subsidies to each of the InfraCo licensees upon attainment of deployment milestone in their respective regions,” he said. Danbatta said the race for infrastructure deployment was a global concern. He said that recent happenings across the world showed that infrastructure was receiving attention at the highest level of government in developed economies. The executive vice chairman said that Nigeria would not to become irrelevant; hence, the need to address digital infrastructure deficit. Nigeria will attain 30% broadband penetration by Dec, NCC insists Broadband penetration: We have surpassed target - NCC 56% Nigeria’s rural population to get broadband services soon Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin