Vice Chairman of the Independent Electoral Commission of Chad (CENI), Adam Mamahdu, has said that many countries shunned their calls for help including the United Nations (UN) which prompted them to seek Nigeria’s help which yielded a positive result. Speaking when he visited chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in Abuja, the Chadian electoral official said the commission which was established in 2014, was incapable of conducting parliamentary election, a development that made the present lawmakers to serve for an additional four-year term. According to him, the situation got worse when Chad joined the fight against the Boko Haram insurgents. “Nigerian officials have been making effort to put us in the world map of election,” he said, adding “INEC in Nigeria supported us in the 2016 presidential election. I hereby state that Nigeria was the first country to support our election in Chad.” He said though their first mission to Nigeria was to thank the commission for all the support, the second issue was to seek for the country’s support in organizing and conducting their parliamentary election which he said had proved difficult. “We want to hold the parliamentary election because the actual tenure of the national Assembly members finished on 21st June, 2019. They have finished two tenures of four years each,” he said. Adam, who highlighted some of the problems that forced them to keep postponing the election, said the Boko Haram crisis in the Lake Chad basin was one of the reasons. “We have taken the matter to bilateral relation that is why we want Nigeria’s support. And we are sure Nigeria will help the INEC of the Republic of Chad. I believe that the INEC of Nigeria will help that of Chad. We appreciate the support you will render to Chad,” Adam said. Responding, Prof. Yakubu said the commission had taken note of the request especially the long overdue parliamentary election which was supposed to have been conducted in 2015 but was postponed several times. Yakubu, who expressed delight with the acknowledgment of Nigeria in the advancement of democracy in Chad, said CENI which was just four years old but conducted presidential election deserved commendation. “We will want the Chad team to come to Nigeria and understudy our election. On our part, we will be happy to send a team to Chad to see how we can collaborate. Be assured that if there is anything of value you think Nigeria can share with Chad in organizing this election, consider us as friend and brother; we will support you in any way we can,” Yakubu said. Only one party submitted 2019 election expense report — INEC 2019: UN pledge technological support for INEC 2019 polls expensive due to mistrust–INEC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin