Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has said that if delegates and leadership of the PDP give the governorship ticket to somebody not endorsed by him and his restoration family, the party could jeopardise its chance of retaining power in the state. Gov. Dickson stated this yesterday in Yenagoa during the official flag off of campaigns for local government elections holding in the state this Saturday. He said, “Let me tell you, Oforoma-Pepe (Dickson) is in charge; there is no candidate or aspirant in PDP, none of them that can lead our party to victory during the governorship election without my support, forget about those making mouth, we are the support base of PDP in Bayelsa. “Those who are boasting that they will take the governorship primary away from Yenagoa to another state, let me tell you, that kind of thing cannot happen at all. This year’s governorship election will be a clash between federal might and state might, just like what happened in 2015.” Gov. Dickson warned party members against supporting unfaithful people seeking for the governorship position in the forthcoming election, describing those he called unfaithful members as “butterflies to the party”. He explained that supporting the unfaithful persons for a governorship aspirant would ruin the party’s plans and chances of winning the governorship election on November 16. “We have rebuilt PDP in the state, and we are going to defeat all other political parties in both the Saturday local government elections and the gubernatorial election on November 16. “I urge you to support PDP now as we go to the polls for the LGA elections. You know that we have some genuine members and some butterflies in the party. All we want is restoration candidates as flagbearers of our party. “PDP is on course to move the state forward. As we go to the polls on Saturday for LGA elections, I urge you not to disappoint the party; keep supporting the restoration government, keep supporting PDP,” Dickson added. Drama, intrigues,  name-calling trail Bayelsa governorship poll Bayelsa governorship: APC, PDP in a battle of shark and ocean Jonathan, Dickson in titanic battle to install next Bayelsa governor Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin