The International Republican Institute (IRI) has charged the Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, and his party, the PDP, to consider a reasonable number of women for political appointment. Briefing the press in Yola, the spokesperson of the IRI delegation, Kate Mamuno, who is the only female legislator in the Adamawa Sate House of Assembly, said the new administration should ensure inclusion of women and youths in running of government affairs. Hon. Mamuno who was flanked by IRI officials, said it was high time women were set free to attain their potential as partners in politics, government and in all spheres of human life, and therefore urged all political parties to recognise the contribution of women to democracy. She also said, “The group commends Gov. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri on the free education and school feeding policy in primary and secondary schools. “The group also applauds recent appointment of several women and youths as members of the local government transition committees. “However, these groups are desirous of more interventions from the governor, and indeed political leaders in the state, towards addressing the germane concerns of exclusion and economic despondency among women and youths in the state.” The group specifically urged Gov. Fintiri to appoint a higher number of women as commissioners, advisers and heads of parastatals, as well as implement favourable policies and support bills that protected and empowered women. Hon. Mamuno noted that IRI was being funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to promote political inclusion of women. As Gov. Fintiri begins a difficult journey Adamawa: PDP governorship candidate promises free education Republican institute partners USAID to encourage women participation in elections Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin