Cornerstone Insurance Plc. has posted N11.5 billion Gross Premium Written (GPW) in 2018, its Chairman, Segun Adebanji, has said. He disclosed this at the firm’s 27th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, adding that the company has continued to record growth in revenue, despite challenging market conditions. According to him, the N11.5 billion, was an increase of 25 per cent from the previous year, and the largest contributor to this result was the Group Life portfolio which contributed N2.01 billion (17 per cent of total GWP). He said the entire Life Insurance portfolio recorded a growth of 48 per cent from the previous year, stressing that this growth was driven by regulatory changes to Group Life Insurance pricing limits and the introduction of a new product targeted at retail segments and that the Individual Life Insurance portfolio grew by 370 per cent from the previous year (N621 million in 2018 from N132 million in 2017). He noted that in line with NAICOM’s mandate, the Board of Directors had met to consider the firm’s strategic options and a plan is in place to ensure that the firm continues to participate fully and actively in the Industry after the June 2020 deadline. He sought and got shareholders’ approval for the firm’s authorised share capital to increase from N7.5 billion, divided into 15 billion ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each to N20 billion, divided into 40 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo, by the creation of additional 25 billion ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each, and such new shares ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing in the share capital of the company. Royal Exchange records N9.4bn gross premium How Nigerian insurance sector fared in 2013 FBN Holdings grows earnings to N291bn Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin