Fidelity Bank Plc has given out over N2.6bn to over 6,000 customers in promos and rewards in the last four years, the Regional Manager, Abuja, Vanessa Mordi, has said. She disclosed this yesterday at the bank’s Fidelity Savings Loyalty Scheme reward event held at the Building Materials Market, in Lugbe, Abuja. The event was to present cheques to three customers who emerged winners in the draws held last week. Two winners with personal savings accounts got N500,000 each while one winner with the children savings account, three-year-old Deborah Enedubio Aku Dave, got N150,000. The other two winners were Nnoma Agatha Nmadu and Mrs. Stella Onuoha. “In the last four years, over 6,000 customers have been rewarded under this our scheme and a total of N2.6bn has been given back to our customers over these four years across Nigeria. It is something we have decided to do,” she said. She said the reason the bank was in Lugbe to reward its loyal customers was because it believes in giving back to the society where it operates. “Lugbe is a place where we operate from because we have a branch in Lugbe. We have come to give back to them and three winners have emerged. Two winners won N500,000 each while one winner, a kid, got N150,000,” she explained. She also noted that the bank has a robust SME desk to support small and growing businesses. “If the fortunes of this country must change, we cannot do away with small businesses. The retail sector would have to grow. We as a financial institution decided to support this industry,” she noted. All three winners expressed excitement over their winning and encouraged other people to also operate an account with Fidelity Bank as the winning is real. Chairman of Building Materials Market, Lugbe, Mr. Emeka Ejeagba thanked the bank for considering them in their campaign and support to MSMEs.  Fidelity bank kicks off silver jubilee with cars, cash rewards page 26 Money Market page 24 Money Market Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin