Detectives have arrested a 24-year-old lady, Onyinye Mbadike, for allegedly locking up a 10-year-old boy, Chibike Eziamaka, in a kennel of dogs in Aguda, Lagos. The video of the suspect flogging the little boy with belt before pushing him into the kennel where she locked him up with dogs had gone viral on the social media. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said that the Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, after watching the video, had ordered that the lady be arrested and brought to book. Elkana said that on August 14, 2019, detectives from the Gender Unit, Command Headquarters, Ikeja, consequently arrested Mbadike of No. 7, Trimnell Street, Aguda, for assault and child abuse. “The Gender Unit traced the suspect to Chumpe Liquor Store, Surulere, and her residence at Aguda. The boy was rescued and taken to a secure shelter. The suspect admitted that she is the one on the viral video flogging the child with a belt, but she denied locking the survivor in a cage with dogs. She said she only locked him in an empty dog kennel where bags are kept. “She claimed to have locked up the boy for a few hours before bringing him out.  She alleged that the boy took a hot drink in her refrigerator and was misbehaving. She also said the boy smashed the side mirror of her Toyota Camry with a stone, which made her to detain him in the dog kennel. “Investigation revealed that the boy had lost his parents and was brought to Lagos in 2012 from Anambra State by the suspect’s mother, along with his two siblings. The suspect and the boy are cousins. The suspect’s mother is the elder sister of the boy’s father. The suspect will be charged to court,” Elkana said.  Viral video: Police nab 24-year-old woman who detained 10-year-old boy in dog cage I swallowed woman's wedding ring to avoid arrest - suspect Man, 61, arrested for chopping  off boy’s hand Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin