The Emir of Pataskum, Mai Umar Bubaram Ibn Wuriwa Bauya, has called on his people to support the initiative of Governor Mai Mala Buni of reviving education in Yobe state. The emir, who spoke to newsmen in his palace, said the initiative was a step in the right direction considering that peace had gradually returned to the state. “I want to make this clarion call that all Yobeans, especially technocrats, to join hands together in support of this useful idea, we should support our governor in his plan to impact positively on reviving education in the state. “The Governor has taken a bold step to declare State of Emergency on primary and secondary education hence the need to cross-fertilize ideas is very important for the progress of our dear state. “We in the traditional institutions will also provide the needed cooperation for this laudable initiative to come to fruition”, he said. He enjoined his subjects to imbibe the spirit of unity among them and to also be their brothers’ keepers in both good and bad times. He called on the farmers and herdsmen in the state to continue to live in peace with one another and avoid issues that will bring conflict among themselves, noting that Yobe has over the time enjoyed a harmonious relationship between farmers and cattle rearers. The Emir also commended the Federal Government for the progress made so far especially in areas of power, roads and the revitalization of the rail transportation in the country. He called on the people to support the security agencies by reporting suspicious characters around them.  Stakeholders meet to revitalise education in Yobe Yobe: Gaidam’s campaign generates different kind of heat Yobe moves to implement state of emergency on education Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin