The traditional ruler of Ugbada-Gwargwada, Kuje Area Council, Alhaji Hussain Agabi Mam, has said poor road network has led to the  several kidnappers hideouts in the area. He said poor road network has given kidnappers access to hideouts in his chiefdom, noting that the roads are difficult for security agencies to access. Alhaji Mam said lack of good road network to neighbouring villages has been one of the major challenges facing his subjects which included over 20 villages. “I believe if there are good roads, the kidnappers cannot easily use the forest as their hideout but they take advantage of the bad roads to use the areas as their hideout, making it difficult for security agents to access,” he said. He urged the authorities of Kuje Area Council, under the leadership of Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, to liaise with the FCT Administration to grade and construct bridges across some streams in his chiefdom, saying it would also reduce hardships experienced by farmers in transporting their crops to the market. “The road may not necessarily be asphalted. Even if the government can grade it, that will reduce the hardship our farmers face while moving their crops to market,” he added. He also decried the lack of sufficient health personnel at the community health centre, saying only one health worker attended to patients. He said the health worker also visited other communities leaving the community without any health personnel, adding that in an emergency, patients had to be taken to Rubochi and Abaji general hospital. He appealed to the authorities of the council to deploy more health personnel to man the health centre in the area. Kidnappings: ‘My people now sleep with two eyes closed’ State of Rubochi - Gwargwada road a nightmare, chief tells FCTA Kuje: Abuja’s new haven for low income earners Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin