Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has assigned portfolios to recently appointed commissioners and special advisers after their successful screening by the Edo State House of Assembly. The governor also carried out a minor cabinet reshuffle. In a statement by media aide to the governor, Crusoe Osagie, said that the development was part of the outcome  of the state Executive Council meeting in Benin on Wednesday. The portfolios are: Marie Edeko, Ministry of Social Development; Damian Lawani, Ministry of Youth; Joe Ikpea, Ministry of Minerals, Oil and Gas and Momoh Oise Omorogbe, Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning. Felix Akhabue was assigned Ministry of Cooperatives and Wealth Creation while Moses Agbakor heads Ministry of Energy. In the reshuffle, the former Commissioner for Agricultural and Natural Resources, Assemblyman Monday Osaigbovo, was moved to the Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs, while  former Commissioner for Education, Assemblyman Emmanuel Agbale, now heads Ministry of Science & Technology. Former Commissioner for LG and Community Affairs Jimoh Ijegbai is now  in charge of the Ministry of Education. The five Special Advisers appointed alongside the commissioners in July were also assigned portfolios. Andrew Momodu is the SA, Public Order and Security, while Assemblyman Osaigbovo Iyoha, former member of the Edo House of Assembly, is now the SA to the Gov on Political Matters,  Edo South. Also Magdalene Ohenhen, former Commissioner for Women Affairs is now Special Adviser Political Matters, Edo Central while the former Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly Kabiru Adjoto is the Special Adviser, Parliamentary Issues. Assemblyman Ojo Asien, a former member of Edo  House of Assembly is now Special Adviser, Political Matters, Edo North.(NAN) Bauchi: Abubakar reshuffles cabinet, creates additional ministry Gov. Ortom reshuffles cabinet, restructures portfolios Al-Makura reshuffles cabinet Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin