Many marriages break up due to the inability of wives to prepare meals that satisfy the taste of their husbands, according to the findings of a Maiduguri-based concerned lady, Aisha Musa Kidah. Consequently, Aisha has established a private initiative called Na’ish Kitchen to train housewives and spinsters in courtship on preparing meals that “meet the appetite” of their husbands as a veritable method of saving their marriages from break up. Na’ish Kitchen, which commenced operation January, 2019, has so far trained 100 housewives and spinsters in Borno State, and is preparing to train another set of 20. Majority of the 100 are housewives. Training housewives and spinsters in courtship is the initial and main purpose of Na’ish Kitchen but it also trains widows of fallen heroes of the Boko Haram war. The Kitchen has, accordingly, trained 200 each of widows of the fallen heroes and policemen, on the sponsorship of a local NGO called Creative, on soft drinks making with wholly locally-sourced fruits as a business enterprise. “The Borno society is so charged by insurgency that has created a multitude of economic problems provoking husbands to divorce their wives just because of bad cooking,” Aisha Kidah, the daughter of an erstwhile Chairman of the Borno State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ), said. “Driven by sheer passion to save the marriages of my fellow women rather than to get wealthy, I felt so much concerned that I sought the approval of my father to take up the training initiative, and he approved and even motivated me with the glad tidings of getting a multitude of rewards from Allah. “Consequently, I opened the Na’ish Kitchen last January (2019) with all the needed facilities and utensils at about N3 million,” she recalled. Aisha said that she had never attended any cookery school to acquire  any formal training, but “after learning from my mother, who used to be a restauranteur and from the You Tube on different dishes across the world, I am so gifted that whatever I prepare and whenever, it satisfies the taste of all.  So I teach housewives and spinsters in courtship to impact positively on their marriages.” The Na’ish Kitchen proprietress trains her students on African and continental dishes, drinks and smoothies, pastries as well as  cake and cake decoration “so that they become wonderful cooks on whatever their husband has appetite for at every meal time.”. She said this would make the husbands to love their wives and think less of divorce. Housewives are registered for the 5-day training by their husbands while and spinsters are allowed to register either by themselves or their parents. Page 56 Widows speak on how to alleviate poverty in their lives Glitz on Kano’s day of 100 brides Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin