A “caucus” member of the APC in Akwa Ibom State, Elder Enefiok Ekefre, has told the election petitions tribunal in the state that the party lost the governorship election because it did not work hard. Speaking yesterday as Respondent Witness (RW) 16 during the tribunal’s sitting in Uyo, Elder Ekefre admitted that the APC did not win the election, adding that he had advised his party to work hard and carry out grassroots campaigns as power belonged to the people. He said unfortunately, his party did not heed his advice and therefore lost the election to the PDP. He said the results of the election in the state as announced by INEC were transparent, adding that officials of the electoral empire did not in any way connive with any of the parties during the election. He further explained that there was no incidence of thuggery, ballot box snatching or violence in his polling Unit 007, Ward 7 in Uyo Local Government Area, adding that he was duly accredited to vote in the election which went on smoothly. He said, “Power belongs to the people and not the party. I advised my party to carry out grassroots campaigns so as to win the PDP. My party did not heed my advice; that was why we lost. The tribunal had earlier denied the witness the opportunity of presenting his PVC as evidence that he was duly accredited for the election. INEC sets Sept 2 for distribution of  219,935 uncollected PVCs in Bayelsa, Kogi The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it will  begin the distribution of  219,935 uncollected Personal Voter Cards (PVCs) in Bayelsa and Kogi on Sept. 2 preparatory to governorship elections in the states The commission announced  this in a statement issued by Mr Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee on Tuesday in Abuja. Okoye said that  total number of uncollected PVCs for Kogi stood at 170,644 while that of Bayelsa were 49, 291 cards. The national commissioner said that the decision was taken on Tuesday when the commission met  and reviewed its preparations for the conduct of the  states’  elections, scheduled for Nov. 16. Okoye said that the collection which would end on Sept. 30, would take place at the Registration Areas (RAs)/Wards in each of the local governments and Distribution Officers (DOs) between 9.a.m to 3.p.m from Monday to Friday. He said that there would be two teams of Distribution Officers per local goverment, adding that the officers would rotate the distribution of the PVCs in the RAs or from community to community, based on a schedule agreed upon by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) and the stakeholders. (NAN) We lost governorship election, did not work hard — APC Caucus member What APC Caucus member told Buhari – Nkire Ekere wins Akwa Ibom APC guber primaries Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin