The National Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) says it has trained 50 operators of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the FCT, Abuja on capacity building and industrial skills. Mrs Lolia Emakpore, Acting Director-General of NASSI told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday that the 2019 MSMEs training focused on various areas of corporate governance, accessing fund, business establishment and sustenance. Emakpore, also a legal practitioner, said the capacity building training was aimed at preparing the MSMEs operators for investment purposes as well as position them to access funds with ease as that was a critical challenge in the sector. According to her, NASSI is presently working with relevant partners to replicate the training in other states of the federation with an increase in the number of industrialists to train. “Our major challenge has been funding to support our members. They look up to us to assist them in accessing funds through micro finance outfits which provide funding for small business start-ups and scale-up in Nigeria. “Most MSMEs operators cannot access funds, so the training is geared toward preparing their businesses to be able to access funds from various intervention grants available. “Subsequently, we will go into training on Information Communication Technology (ICT), globalising business, cosmetology, food processing, manufacturing and packaging, among others,’’ she said. Emakpore said the association was committed to delivering its mandate by encouraging the growth of micro, small and medium industrialists across the nation. She said most times some of the MSMEs were not well structured and did not have their businesses properly registered but that with NASSI’s collaboration with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), the companies were being properly registered. She said apart from funding, the MSMEs also faced unfavourable pronouncements or government policies which could affect them adversely. The industrialists noted one of such pronouncements as a recent one by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) on multiple tariffs. Emakpore expressed relief that the tariff was withdrawn and NAFDAC was advised to consult major stakeholders, including NASSI, to always work out modalities to implement such policies so that they would not affect the MSMEs’ ecosystem adversely.  page 25  INTERVIEW  BUSINESS How lack of patronage is killing our businesses in Kano –  NASSI Chairman NASSI partners US centre on best practices in MSMEs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin