Experts in the oil and gas industry have blamed the failure of some projects to take off on host communities’ differences and conflicts as well as some unfavourable policies of the government. The experts expressed these views in Abuja, at the screening of a documentary, with the theme: ‘The Impact of Corruption and Conflict on Investments in the Energy Rich Niger Delta Communities’, organized by the African Initiative for Transparency, Accountability and Responsible Leadership (AfriTAL). For instance, they cited the delay in the commencement of the $20 billion Gas Revolution Industrial Project, Ogidigben, Delta State and the deep seaport and industrial park in Gelegele, Edo state, as projects whose realisation have been frustrated by the Federal Government and host communities various antics. In his submission, a consultant to AfriTAL, Mr. Zibima Tubodenyefa, said most of the blames would go to host communities, especially as certain individuals, which he identified as conflict entrepreneurs, had consistently frustrated peace in the communities for their selfish interests. Mr. Charles Majomi, an energy expert, said that with the discovery of crude oil in commercial quantities across Africa, investors are no longer queuing up to invest in Nigeria. He said, “Not one drop of gas has been produced in that Ogidigben axis despite millions of dollars that had been spent there. We keep seeing this recurring issue, it keeps happening time and time again. If we do not develop a format to hold government accountable to good governance in the sector, our research would just be an academic exercise and everything would evaporate with time.” Speaking in the same vein, a consultant with AfriTAL, Professor Solomon Adeleye, said the current structure in the Nigerian petroleum industry was not sustainable, mainly because the country is not investing in the sector.  Energia, Oando JV deliver multibillion naira infrastructural projects to host communities in Delta NERC grants Green Energy 40MW power generation licence PEACE IN N''DELTA: Stakeholders Demand Payment of 13% Derivation Direct to Oil Producing Communities, says its illegal for State Govt to administer the fund Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin