The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) said it will soon launch a training scheme for 1,000 youths in Kano on phone hardware repairs, software installation and entrepreneurship development. The Executive Secretary of the NCDMB Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, who stated this in Abuja on Monday at a media engagement, said the program will develop a pool of local talents for the assembly of GSM phones and development of software applications that are currently largely imported. He said the training was part of the agency’s continued advocacy to extend the Nigerian Content Act to other critical sectors of the economy. The NCDMB, with its headquarters in Bayelsa, was established through  the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act enacted in 2010. The primary responsibility of the Board is to develop local capacities and monitor the Nigerian oil and gas industry to ensure greater participation of indigenous companies. He said the NCDMB was also supporting the rebuilding of the North East region, which had been impacted negatively by insurgency. “In July we completed the training of 107 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) under the Fair Chance Initiative (FCI). The beneficiaries were selected from Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States and were trained on plumbing, electrical, carpentry, GSM phone repair, digital soft skills, soap making and bead making. “We are partnering with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and other bodies to attach the trainees to established companies to enable them perfect their crafts, learn the business side of their trades and undergo mentoring,” the NCDMB boss said.  NCDMB earmarks $200m for intervention fund Nigerian local content to create 300,000 jobs Senate assures AGIP of commitment on $13.5bn oil project Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin