The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately publish the details of the 2019 general election results from the ward to national level. The CDD Director, Ms. Idayat Hassan, made the call yesterday in Abuja during a conference on elections and collation process in Nigeria’s elections and formal presentation of its election report titled: ‘Counting the Votes and Ward-Level Collation during Nigeria’s 2019 Presidential Election: A Post-mortem Analysis.’ Hassan said INEC was less transparent in the 2019 general election than it was during the 2015 and 2011 elections. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “INEC should transparently and proactively publish, via the INEC website and through civil society organisations, official results for all elections, showing full and accurate breakdown of figures down to polling unit level. “It should work towards developing a way of transparently making ward-level results easily accessible to and searchable by the public. “One of the most noticeable and avoidable missteps INEC has made following the 2019 election is its refusal to publish detailed election results on its website. INEC has only published national level totals for the 2019 presidential election, choosing to keep sub-national results data hidden from public view. This opaque approach reverses the tangible albeit incomplete progress on results transparency that accompanied the 2011 and 2015 elections,” she said. Also, the National President of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Chief Peter Ameh, said that INEC should learn from the shortcomings of the general election and put a tight and acceptable arrangement that would protect the distribution of sensitive election materials to their destination on time. Electoral violence: CSOs call for compensation for victims Kogi, Bayelsa polls: INEC to use e-collation system 2019 elections not credible – Situation Room Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin