The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) yesterday said a joint Inter-Agency team has arrested 37 officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) for allegedly extorting money from motorists on the highways. The spokesperson of the ICPC, Rasheedat Okoduwa, in a statement said the team, comprising officials of ICPC, FRSC and the Department of State Security (DSS) also arrested five persons said to be agents of the corps officials in a sting operation carried out simultaneously in the six geo-political zones. She said the team struck on Friday 16th August 2019, following the receipt of a complaint from the management of the Corps of massive extortion of money from motorists on the highways by its patrol teams. She said the FRSC management had, in the complaint to the Commission, observed that incidents of extortion were rife in the six states of Kaduna, Bauchi, Abia, Rivers, Kogi and Ogun. Okoduwa said, “Based on this, the ICPC-led Team went into action and identified the notorious spots in each of the aforementioned states to include Aba in Abia State; Ahoada, Ajaokuta, Itori, Torro and Gwantu in Rivers, Kogi, Ogun, Bauchi and Kaduna States respectively. “Thirteen FRSC officials and two civilians were arrested in Aba in the South-east while 24 other FRSC officials and three civilians were arrested from various spots on roads spread across the other geo-political zones.” She said findings from the Joint Inter-Agency Team indicated that various sums of money were found on the arrested Corps officials during the sting operations before they were taken into ICPC custody. She noted that all the officials arrested and three civilian accomplices have been granted administrative bail and will be prosecuted by the Commission at the conclusion of investigations.  ICPC joint operation arrests 37 road safety officials, over extortion of motorists FRSC prosecutes 45 truck drivers in Abia FRSC returns money found on accident victim to relatives Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin