Tens of thousands of Nigerian pilgrims yesterday joined millions of their counterparts from across the globe to pray and observe afternoon prayers on the plain of ‘Arafat in line with the tradition of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). The pilgrims were happy as rain fell for about 50 minutes shortly after they observed the shortened afternoon prayers. Standing on Mount Arafat is an integral part of the annual pilgrimage as Hajj cannot be complete without it. A member of National Ulama Team, Dr Bashir Aliyu, who led the Dhuhr and Asr prayers yesterday in one of the tents at ‘Arafaat, asked Allah to rid Nigeria of kidnapping, banditry, drugs abuse, and terrorism. Dr Aliyu, who is the Imam of Al-Furqan Mosque in Kano, said the Prophet reminded Muslims of the essence of brotherhood and unity on Arafat 1440 years ago. He said the plain of ‘Arafat was also used by the Prophet to underscore the need to shun civil strife as a result of ethnic differences. “His message shows us the importance of brotherhood and the need to shun things that will lead to violation of the sanctity of life, property, and honour,” he said. At ‘Arafat, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) organised national prayers for the country which were conducted in different languages by members of the National Ulama Team. The Islamic scholars who prayed at the occasion were Sheikh Mohammed Nasir Adam (Arabic), Sheikh Rofih Al-Ijebuwy (Yoruba), Sheikh Abdur-rahman Ahmad (English), Prof Abubakar Mustapha (Kanuri), Sheikh Said Hassan Jingir (Hausa), Dr Ibrahim Diezani (Igbo), and Prof. K.K Olosho (English), among others. In his remarks at the Hajj National Prayers, the NAHCON’s Chairman, Barrister Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammad, said the event was used to pray for economic growth, security, and stability of the country since Allah had promised to answer prayers offered at ‘Arafat. Nigerian pilgrims pray for Nigeria, leaders, families in Arafat 65,000 Nigerians among 1.8m Muslim pilgrims observing Afarat Day Hajj 2019: Saudi modernises stoning of devil to check stampede Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin