Inappropriate diagnosis of the ailments of deaf and dumb patients by medical doctors due to the inability of such patients to explain their situations to the doctors has constituted a matter for grave concern to the Borno State wing of the Joint Association of Persons Living With Disabilities (PLWD). The Public Relations Officer of PLWD in Borno state, Ibrahim Musa, made the lamentation on behalf of the association yesterday in Maiduguri at a One – Day Sensitization On Mainstreaming  Disability In the Humanitarian Response In the Northeast. The association  also lamented the no-inclusion of its members by government and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) on interventions  committees in Borno and the Northeast. The Borno PLWD  also  alleged that one of its members was denied admission by the University of Maiduguri after being offered admission by JAMB due to his impairment. The visually impaired PLWD PRO appealed to the state government to employ interpreters in all health facilities in the state to enable the deaf and dumb patients appropriately explain their ailments to medical personnel during diagnosis. He complained that due to their inability to speak or hear sign language becomes the alternative means of explaining their ailment to the health officers. This, he said, has become a problem because majority of medical doctors and other health officials do not understand the sign language. Musa also called for recognition of the condition of Persons Living With Disabilities in all public structures, saying that members in Borno state cannot access most public structures because they are not designed to favour them. In her opening remarks, the  Executive Director  Women in Nigeria (WIN), Comrade Lucy Yunana, also decried the no-inclusion of persons with disabilities in government appointments and policies. Lucy maintained that the inclusion of such persons in governance and interventions has become necessary due to the fact that only they can understand their challenges better than anyone. Jumai Mshelia of the human rights commission, in her presentation, charged the Association to always come to the commission with their complaints whenever the rights of its members are violated. Earlier in his address, Mr Agugu Cornelius of Gammun, the NGO which organised the sensitization programme in conjunction with CBM and government of Germany, said they have been providing assistance to PLWD in communities in Konduga local government area. FG seeks collaboration to provide jobs for disabled persons ‘How maternity staff turn deaf ears to our plight’ ‘Modern buildings should have provision for the physically challenged’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin