The Federal Government has outlined reforms that would properly organise the gemstone and jewellery industry value chain in Nigeria. This is in response to the growing needs of the industry, an official said. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Steel Development Dr Abdulkadir Muazu made this known at a stakeholder’s workshop on the gemstone and jewellery industry in Abuja yesterday. “Our reforms will be in two phases to enable us deliver the benefits of development of this industry. For the first phase, the Ministry has adopted an institutional reform approach. In the second phase, we will be extending the outreach to the grassroots and rural areas,” Muazu said. He added that the aim is to build on Nigeria’s traditional jewellery making systems and fuse it with the modern and innovative techniques through the establishment of gemstone and jewellery villages in such locations where gems occur. In his welcome address, the Project Coordinator of the Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification Project (MinDiver) Mr Linus Adie said the goal of the Ministry in this regard is to create employment opportunities for teeming youths and develop a skilled workforce in design and jewellery making. “Our target is to emulate the example of India, who are today the global leaders in gems and jewellery; contributing 29% to the global jewellery consumption,” Adie said. He said it was estimated that the value of gemstone exports from Nigeria should not be less than $ 2 million; with Thailand, Sri Lanka, Israel, Germany, United States and India as destination. Mines ministry, institute to develop gemstone, jewellery industry Nigeria gemstones’ export valued at $3bn annually – Minister Nigeria loses $3bn annually to illegal gemstone trade — Gemologist Muhammed-Oluyede Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin