The Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) says it is partnering with the Centre for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), USA to improve Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria. Chief Solomon Vongfa, NASSI National President, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja that the partnership was to encourage international best practices. Vongfa told NAN that the partnership with CIPE became necessary due to the challenges being faced by the association as well as the zeal to propel MSMEs to be effective and well grounded. “Due to some lapses discovered in the management of the association, we sought for help through the CIPE, USA and it intervened by sending its consultants to drill the association on good governance,’’ he said. The national president said based on that, CIPE recently held a diagnostic meeting with NASSI aimed at studying the association to overhaul its operation. He said based on the diagnostic meeting, the outcome was an action plan that would run for three years for the association based on the questionnaires CIPE rendered. “The diagnostic meeting revealed certain areas in which the management of the association has problems. As part of its strategic plan, CIPE has to redo our statutory plan to suit international best practice, the implementation would start mid-September,’’ he stated. Vongfa, however, called on the National Executive Committee members of NASSI who were the statutory body to give necessary corrections and approve the outcome of the meeting for implementation. He recalled that the MSMEs’ survey carried out in 2017 showed that the MSMEs recorded about 41 million entrepreneurs in the country. He said the survey was carried out by its regulatory agency, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) in collaboration with the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The national president added that the survey revealed that among the 41 million MSMEs recorded, about 37 million were micro and the small level.  Industrialists bicker over leadership, misappropriation No economic growth without trans-border trade – FG Support for MSMEs is only on papers –NASSI Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin