Popularly known as the First Port Harcourt Central Mosque, the oldest mosque in Rivers State, located at Victoria Street in Port Harcourt, is a meeting point for the northern community resident in Rivers State. The mosque, established in 1964, had in the past hosted prominent northern leaders who had worshipped there during their professional sojourn in Rivers State or during a visit. Upgraded and presently undergoing total renovation, the Mosque was the worship centre for late General Sani Abacha when he was Commander of the 2 Amphibious Brigade in 1977. Also, Col. Musa Shehu was said to have been using the Mosque as his worship center when he was the Military Administrator of Rivers State between 1996 and 1997. Col. Dauda Musa Komo is not a Muslim but sources close to the Mosque told our correspondent that some of the subordinates of the ex military officer who were Muslims worshipped at the Mosque when he held sway as the Military Administrator of Rivers State. President Muhammadu Buhari was also said to have worshipped in the mosque during his visit to Port Harcourt in 1999 and 2003.The mosque is a beehive of activities every Friday during the Jumat service. On every Jumat service, Muslim from all the nooks and crannies of the state converge at the Mosque for the prayer session. Alhaji Idris Adamu is the Chief Imam of the Mosque. He said the Mosque, founded in the 1960s before the Civil War, is a melting pot for all the northerners in Rivers State as well as visitors. “The Mosque was in a small building until worshippers realized that it was no longer befitting of their status and decided to rebuild it. “It is presently undergoing renovation through the efforts and contribution of worshippers. I also want to inform you that the mosque has hosted prominent northerners who have worshipped here in the past.” The cleric called on well meaning Muslims in the state and beyond to assist towards the completion of the renovation work at the mosque.  Alhaji Musa Saidu, leader of the Hausa community in the South-south and South-east, said the mosque is a meeting point for the Hausa community resident in Port Harcourt, as well as visitors in the state. He noted that the mosque has outlived most of them because he started seeing the mosque as a child. “This mosque you are seeing is older than most of us. “I was barely 10 years old when I started seeing this mosque. Our fathers built it. A lot of prominent people from the north have worshipped here. The Mosque serves as a meeting point for Muslims, especially of northern extraction, where we meet to pray, interact and take decisions.” The Deputy Chief Imam of the mosque, Salihu Abdullahi, said the Mosque draws its worshippers from across the Hausa community in Rivers State. A resident, Malam Usman Umar, said he worships and interacts with fellow Muslims in the Mosque after Jumat services. Rivers muslims trade words over hajj seats ‘Threats’ send some Northerners fleeing N/Delta No place to worship Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin