A yet to be identified man was reportedly stabbed to death yesterday at the end of an event organised by the National Union of Road Transport Worker (NURTW) in Abuja. It was gathered that incident happened on the road outside the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) Conference Centre where the event was held. It was further gathered that the man was stabbed inside a bus that was vandalised in front of the NAF centre. The bus, which was still at the scene as at 7:00pm when our reporter visited the scene has Tricycle Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria (TOOAN) written on it. “Affiliate of NURTW” was also inscribed on it with 358, Lagos/Abeokuta Express Way, Super Bus Stop, Agege, Lagos, also written on it. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY A soldier stationed at the NAF centre told our reporter that “We were stationed here (NAF Centre) when we saw some people rushing to enter the gate and we went outside to put the situation under control.” Giving more details on the incident, two management staff of NAF centre, who prefer not to be named, said the incident happened after the close of the NURTW event at the centre. They said the deceased was attacked by “agbero boys” and that the deceased ran into the centre for refuge after he had been stabbed. They said the deceased was taken away by policemen from Life Camp division of the FCT police command. FCT Police Commissioner, Bala Ciroma however said he can only confirm that someone was stabbed outside NAF centre and was rushed to the hospital. He however said he cannot confirm if the victim was dead as at 8pm when our reporter spoke with him on the phone. He said investigation has since commenced. Meanwhile, in another development, the FCT Police Command said it has arrested four suspects in connection with the explosive materials use for quarry, mining and rock blasting intercepted on Wednesday by a joint team of police operatives from the Command Explosive Ordnance Disposal unit and Nyanya Police Division at the  Baba Nagode Motor Park in Nyanya. A statement by the command’s spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah identified the suspects as Hamisu Abah, Suleiman Hammeed, Onuh Sunday and Agwan Bulus. He said the suspects have been transferred to the Command Criminal Investigation Department for discreet investigation. He added that “members of the public are encouraged to go about their lawful activities as adequate security measures have been put in place by the Command to protect lives and property in FCT.” 18 escape death as bus hits VIO van at Gwarinpa Archery Federation targets Tokyo 2020 Olympics Lagos: An emerging city of extortioners Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin