The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) will continue to partner the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) in order to maintain access roads in Federal Housing Estates in Abuja. The Managing Director/CEO, Engr. Nuruddeen A. Rafindadi, stated this when the Acting Managing Director, FHA, Umar S. Gonto, led a delegation of the management staff of FHA to FERMA headquarters on a courtesy visit. Rafindadi stated that FERMA has in the past intervened on roads in Lugbe, Kado and Gwarimpa estates by maintaining the access roads, thereby alleviating the difficulties the residents of the estates had faced. He added that the agency will continue to partner FHA to extend same gesture of maintenance of roads to other FHA estates and infrastructure. The MD however said FERMA’s inability to accede to all the requests of FHA was because the main mandate of the agency was on federal roads, and that the agency has the challenge of fund to carry out the expected work. “We have far less fund than we need, and extremely high expectations from the public. Our main mandate is on Federal roads routine maintenance”, he added, “but the expectation from the public has gone beyond that, extending to state roads, and federal institutions etc.” The MD, FHA, Umar Gonto, earlier in his speech, said the reason for their visit was to thank and convey the appreciation of the residents of the estates where the agency had intervened. He called for the quick intervention of FERMA on roads in FHA, Lugbe extension as the roads are in deplorable condition. He also said FHA was ready to cooperate with FERMA in the provision of housing for the agency’s staff.    FG injects N9bn to boost FHA programmes FERMA partners women engineers ‘We have programs to address housing need of all Nigerians’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin