A 38-year-old Nigerian cleric based in the United Kingdom, Tobi Adegboyega, has announced his readiness to fight poverty among youths in Lagos State with creation of jobs through the waste management business. Other areas in which Adegboyega said he would be empowering youths are creative arts and security initiatives. The clergyman said he would create thousands of jobs within 24 months in Lagos by investing money in generating over 54 million tons of waste in the state alone. The young philanthropist, who is a pastor at the Salvation Proclaimers Anointed Church, London, told our correspondent, “Over the years, in the United Kingdom, we have created jobs for thousands of youths by raising funds for young people who had brilliant ideas but lacked the capital to start.” He clarified the idea was not about giving cash to youths directly, as the money might be diverted, but by identifying business ideas the youths could be assisted upon to manage. “We’ll be taking off before the end of the year. Our strength has been the ability to bring those who have and those who need together to create something that will positively transform the lives of the latter. We have over N20m pledges, apart from what we are starting with,” he said. Adegboyega was positive the empowerment initiative would curb insecurity, which, he noted, was one of the major challenges in the country.                                                                                                                 “We did that in the UK. We went to areas that are commonly known for youth violence and change the narrative until crime was reduced to almost nil,” he said. State sponsored 419: the senseless deaths of our youth Finalists for Hall of Infamy Finalists for Hall of Infamy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin