The Ababa of Jiwa chiefdom, His Royal Highness (HRH) Alhaji Idris Musa, said some tribes are trying to consider themselves as superior indigenes of the FCT because others have been silent on their culture and tradition. Alhaju Musa, while speaking with newsmen in his palace shortly after he attended the celebration of Hawan Daushe organised by Koro natives of Jiwa on Tuesday, said some cultures and traditions had gone extinct before the influx of Nigerians into the territory. He said there was need for the people, especially the mass media, to discard the notion that only one tribe is the main indigene of the FCT, adding “I don’t want to talk but today, it has reached a stage for us to talk because this is the culture we inherited from Zazzau kingdom,” he said. The traditional ruler said the Koro natives are the peaceful indigenes of the FCT, adding that it was difficult for the Koro natives to engage in quarrelling with others. He said the traditional Hawan Daushe celebration was a symbol of unity among the Koro natives and other ethnic groups in the chiefdom. He called on residents to sustain the peaceful coexistence among them. Also speaking, the Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council, Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu Candido, said the only way to sustain and preserve culture and tradition was to uphold it by coming together during festivals to showcase it to the public. “And what the chief is doing today, some people may see him as wasting his time but as we advance, those who have forgotten themselves will completely be forgotten and nobody will remember them,” he said.     It’s been our ancestral land, even  before Nigeria was created – FCT natives Bwari: One kingdom with two kings Sallah in Zaria: The glamour, the excitement Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin