Chief John Oyegun is a former Governor of Edo State and former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview in Benin, as he turned 80, he spoke on his political life, how Nigeria can achieve violent-free elections, among other sundry issues. You are celebrating your 80th birthday, and you have been in active politics for decades, what is your perception of Nigerian politics? Eighty years; to start with, is a time for reflection, a period for retrospection, a period to look at what one has done right or wrong. At 80, I look back at politics and think that it is time for us to be matured; our politics should also get matured. It should grow out of how to do this right; it should grow out of respect for due process and respect for the peoples’ will. So, it is also time that Nigerian politics should mature and become a beacon of hope and democracy to the rest of the African countries, because God created Nigeria to play a leadership role in Africa, but unfortunately, we the people seem to be hell-bent on pulling everything apart. When you look at the politics today, it is so heated up that people are now beginning, for the sake of it, to seek cheap popularity by saying the most divisive and outrageous things; it has become a standard for all; politically. This is wrong and totally bad for the nation. So, I think it is time for us to mature politically as a people for the overall development of the nation. You have been an active player in the politics of this country, so what would you say of politicians’ behaviour then and the way it is now? It has not changed much from the point of view of being right, from the point of view of disrespecting electoral laws and regulations, from the point of view of winning at all costs. As a matter of fact, that is the basic philosophy that seems to be reigning now in our politics. That is, win first and they can go to court, and it doesn’t matter how you win, and the court is the arbiter in all electoral matters; this is wrong. During my time as APC national chairman, I tried to steer the party and the country into a direction of relatively clean, relatively civilise politicking which does not remove the contentiousness of politics, but only make it a little bit more civil and minimise to a greater extent, unnecessary wastage and loss of life. Unfortunately, I think we are back in the bad old days, but we owe it as the governing party to plan a direction for the future of politics in this country, and I don’t think we are doing that now. What is your take on life now that you have turned 80? Life is fantastic, and I am glad and happy that God has preserved me in good health to be 80; that God has opened wonderful doors for me at 80; that God has granted me a very fulfilled life at 80; that God has made it possible for me in whatever department I have found myself; to reach the top and contribute to the very best of my ability and wisdom that God has endowed me with for the development of the nation. What is the secret of your good health? The secret is simple; do no evil, think no evil, plan no evil, then you will have peace of mind and the favour of God will be with you. With the politics of do or die being played today, how would you advise our politicians? It is difficult, but I think the basic thing is that politics is a contentious occupation, but that doesn’t rob it of the basic common human decency. I think we should return to a politics of decency, politics of ideas and commitment, politics that is devoid of the greatest extent possible of violence and certainly avoid the taking of human life just for the sake of acquiring power. You were a governor and Chairman of APC, yet your children are not in politics; unlike what is happening now. What is your take on this? I have been very lucky, and I think my political life is a bit of an example of what is possible in life if you are also a man of peace. It is not only violence and letting everybody know how strong you are that can get you to the top. Sometimes simple decency and adhering to basic principles, integrity and truth can also get you to the top. Now that you are 80, are you planning to quit politics will remain active? It is a very difficult question for me, but I have thought of it and considered that after 80 years of active life, it is time I step aside from active politicking, but then, when I look at myself, I say God must have a purpose of giving me good health at this age, with mental faculty still relatively in tight, now do I have a right from shutting it out of contributing to the public growth? This is the question I ask myself, and because of that, I still leave the door open for participation, but certainly not as active like in the past. You are a staunch supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, what is your advice to him and APC in leaving a good legacy for the nation? I was with the president a few days ago and I can say physically he is very strong, and mentally and spiritually. He is very alert and dedicated to making permanent and positive change in the Nigerian political and economic environment, and I am sure that the next four years will be dramatic in terms of positive impact in the life of the Nigerian people. Are you going to use the opportunity of your birthday to see to the end of the crisis rocking the state APC and the House of Assembly? First of all, parties to the crisis should sheathe their swords and call back their many foot soldiers who are the ones heating up the polity. A lot of very good people are intervening in the crisis in the state. Religious, business and political groups are on the matter trying to see to the end of the crisis. The last time I visited his Royal Majesty, Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, his suggestion is that I should intervene. Personally as a person I wonder if that would be possible because of the contentious nature of my relation with one of the parties in the dispute, but with friends, I am exploring possibility of a strong committee of independent minded groups to try to seek the resolution of the dispute if we know the issue in dispute. Unfortunately, as at today, the reality of what is behind the dispute or the struggle; we still don’t know. But everybody is aware of the fallout and we still don’t know what triggered it. We will get to the root of the matter and the general sense will prevail. How did you meet your wife? Hahaha, leave all that. But I met my wife like every other person I hope to meet. In the course of life, you meet somebody who totally fits the bill, impresses you, sweeps you off your feet and you get married. I’m yet to recover from June 12 struggle – Oyegun Change is inevitable, ex-COAS tells leaders APC convention fallout: Odigie Oyegun faces tough challenges ahead of 2015 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin