The Kogi State House of Assembly, yesterday, commenced impeachment process against Deputy Governor Simon Achuba over alleged acts of gross misconduct. Daily Trust reports that the move is coming amidst the lingering feud between the governor and his deputy; heightening suspicion that he might be impeached before the end of their first tenure. The members at plenary, yesterday, described the recent actions and utterances of the deputy governor on Channels and AIT television stations as acts of “gross misconduct” against Governor Yahaya Bello and the people of the state. Majority Leader of the House, Abdullahi Bello, representing Ajaokuta state constituency, had at plenary read a petition signed by 21 out of the 25 members of the assembly. Parts of the petition read: “We the members of the Kogi State  House of Assembly have in the past few weeks and days watched keenly the actions and utterances of the Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Elder Simon Achuba both in public and national television with regards to the government of Kogi State, the governor of Kogi State and other key officials of the state government especially the allegations of crimes, financial misappropriation and non-performance levelled against them. “It is our belief that these actions and utterances of the deputy governor amount to gross misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office.” The petition also alleged that the committee set up by the Kogi State government to look into the Iyano crisis in Ibaji Local Government Area made some findings that indicted the deputy governor over his actions in relation to the escalation of the crisis. “It is our view that the deputy governor is guilty of gross misconduct and he ought to answer to and or substantiate all these allegations,” the lawmakers said. Speaker Matthew Kolawole agreed with the prayers and directed that the petition be served on the deputy governor for him to respond within 14 days. Addendum to Assembly story The opposition PDP in the state in its reaction described the assembly’s impeachment move against Achuba as “toeing the path of self- destruction.” PDP spokesman in the state, Prince Bode Ogunmola said moving against the deputy governor for “speaking the truth” was not only “ludicrous” but an exercise that would end in futility. He said the lawmakers “should bury their heads in shame” for making themselves appendage of the governor rather than serving as true representatives of their constituents. 21 out of 25 Kogi lawmakers move to impeach Yahaya Bello's deputy Kogi APC suspends deputy governor, Achuba How Kogi dep gov emerged Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin