Five persons have won big in the Dangote Cement PLC’s Dangote Bag of Goodies consumer promo. The winners are  Momoh Ali and Evbuemwan George who won GAC Saloon cars each while  Edigi Precious, Albert Elugie and Okwezi Azuka won a television set and refrigerators respectively. Presenting the items to the winners, the Non-Executive Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Ufot Dorothy (SAN) said the promo was part of the company’s social responsibility to its distributors, retailers, wholesalers and consumers who are contributing to its existence as cementcompany “We are here to give the prices that we have promise the winners. Two people won cars while others won television set and refrigerators. This is part of our efforts to encourage our customers to keep patronising us and the promo runs till September,” she said. The Marketing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Funmi Sanni, said out of the 43 cars to be won, nine have been won so far while 32 are yet to be won. Sanni said the promo exercise has been done in seven states, adding that the monetary value of the prices was not less than N50 million. Responding on behalf of the beneficiaries, Momoh Ali commended the cement company for the promo noting that the gift items will change their lives for better. “With just 10 bags of Cement, I am now a proud owner of GAC Saloon car. Today is the happiest day in my life,” he said. The promo also had a 70-year old moi-moi seller, Alhaja Nimota Adetoro winning a saloon car in Ikirun, Osogbo, Osun State. 35-year old Engineer and businessman, Tochukwu Anthony from Enugu State also won the star prize of a brand new GAC car, while Amadi Richard and Julius Ilabeshi won flat screen LED TV sets in Port Harcourt, Rivers State at a ceremony to reward winners in the promo. Speaking in Osogbo, Chairman, Dangote Cement Plc, Aliko Dangote said t the rate at which consumers are winning valuable prizes in its on-going national consumer promotion tagged ‘bag of goodies’ is not a gimmick but a means of giving back to the loyal consumers of its cement products. The Dangote Cement Group Managing Director, Engr. Joseph Makoju who presented the Car and television sets to the winners said, “Dangote Cement is reliable, we are trustworthy. If you use our product you can go home and sleep. We really appreciate you because without our customers, consumers, retailers, distributors there will be no Dangote Cement.” Briefing newsmen, Regional Director (South South), Dangote Cement, George Okoro said, “We believe in appreciating our customers for their dedication and their loyalty across all members of the channel.” He said the promo will run for three months, from July 1st to September 30.  21m winners to emerge from Dangote cement promo Retailer wins car in Dangote Cement consumer promo 14 millionaires emerge in Dangote Cement promo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin