The immediate past Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, on Sunday, expressed outrage over the confiscation of one of his personal houses by the Imo State Government. Sen. Okorocha said he would no longer hold on and see his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, continue to ridicule him. Okorocha, speaking on telephone with our correspondent, alleged that the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Uche Onyeagucha, on Saturday, led some thugs to his private guest house in Owerri, drove away the security men on duty, invaded and carted away some documents without warrant or any form of authorisation. The guest house is among the five houses Okorocha built for former governors of the state: Sam Mbakwe, Evan Enwerem, Achike Udenwa, Ikedi Ohakim and himself at the famous Ikemba Odimegwu Ojukwu Square. He alleged that thereafter, the SSG locked the house up and went away with the keys. Okorocha further alleged that the recent invasion of his private guest house followed series of other calculated attacks on his property and that of his family members since he left office. He, therefore, warned against taking his silence over the victimisation of his family members for granted, adding that Nigeria was a country governed by rules and regulations and not emotions. He said, “In the last couple of months, the government of Emeka Ihedioha has launched and sustained attacks on my property and that of my family members. They had raided my wife and daughter’s business places and I have reported to the authorities.” But the SSG, Onyeagucha, denied that he invaded Okorocha’s house, saying he only recovered the property following the directive of the governor that all government property in the possession of former government officials must be recovered for public use. Speaking through his Special Adviser on Media, McDonald Enwere, the SSG said, “Okorocha had in the twilight of his administration built houses for himself and former governors and these houses have not been utilised and the present governor directed that all government property should be recovered. That is one of those property that was built on government land. And so, it belongs to the government. “So, the SSG only carried out the directives of the governor. No single document was removed as the house is still virgin.” Asked why it was only Okorocha’s property that was recovered when there were others, Onyeagucha said the government was still considering what use to put them to. Okorocha fumes over seizure of property by Imo govt Okorocha to Okechukwu: Stop insulting me Okorocha to VON DG: Stop insulting me Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin