Troops of the Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) have killed five Boko Haram militants, arrested three; and destroyed a vehicle supplying the insurgents petrol and other equipment in northern part of Borno State. The troops had also received three surrendered Boko Haram sect members. Chief of Military Public Information, MNJTF N’Djamena – Chad, Colonel Timothy Antigha, said this in a statement distributed to newsmen in Maiduguri yesterday. “Consistent with the determination of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) to deal with the violence orchestrated by Boko Haram Terrorists in the Lake Chad Area, troops of the MNJTF  in conjunction with national forces over the last few days have continued to inflict human and equipment casualties on Boko Haram. “In various offensive engagements conducted across the Areas of Responsibilities in Chad, Nigeria and Niger Republic, the following operational achievements have been recorded. “MNJTF troops operating around Damasak, Garunda and Gazabure localities destroyed a vehicle smuggling petrol and other logistics for Boko Haram. “Acting on intercepted Boko Haram communication, a coalition of MNJTF Air Forces conducted air interdictions in Madayi, Meri and Tchoukou-Bol and destroyed Boko Haram logistic equipment concealed in thickly forested areas. “MNJTF troops in conjunction with national forces operating in Mallam Fatori – Bosso axis discovered and neutralized three roadside bombs planted by Boko Haram Terrorists. Also recovered were a Gun Truck and assorted ammunition abandoned by fleeing Boko Haram fighters. “Similarly, troops of the MNJTF and national forces operating in Doro Naira and Ngolom environs made contact with Boko Haram Terrorists and at the end of the engagement five terrorists were killed, three captured, while others fled. “Two out of the three captured terrorists were eventually killed when the vehicle conveying them went over a roadside bomb planted by Boko Haram themselves. “Tired of waiting for the unrealized Boko Haram Caliphate, three Boko Haram Terrorists have Surrendered to troops of MNJTF Sector-One in Balgaram, Cameroon,” the statement concluded. Multinational troops kill 40 Boko Haram fighters MNJTF troops neutralise 33 Boko Haram insurgents in Lake Chad basin BREAKING: Boko Haram: Buhari, 5 Presidents meet in Chad tomorrow