…It is on course, FG says  The planned concession of four international airports by the Federal Government has not materialised almost four years into the first term of the current government, Daily Trusts can report. Minister of State for Aviation Senator Hadi Sirika, in his aviation development master plan unveiled in 2016, unfolded the intention of government to concession the airports. The airports slated for concession are the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos; Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja; Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) and Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa Rivers State. In April 2016 when Sirika held a stakeholders’ forum in Lagos, the second to be held after the first one in Abuja on assumption of office as minister, he listed several other projects to boost aviation development. On the concession, he had said, “What we plan to have are more jobs. Our aim is to increase the size and capacity of the airports through PPP by attracting investments, to create the much needed hub in West and Central Africa.” On the scope of the PPP, he said it would be determined by the transaction adviser after careful study and preparation of an Outline Business Case (OBC). The OBC will have to be certified by the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). “The staff of FAAN will be responsible for supervising all PPPs and in addition be responsible for running other airports in the country. As the infrastructure expands, more people will be engaged to operate the new terminals. “The airports for concession under a PPP arrangement will require regular roles to be played by both government and the private sector for success. FAAN will be the government counter party on the PPP contracts for the airport and play government’s role.” But three years after, little or nothing has been achieved in actualizing the concession programme even as stakeholders expressed concern over what they called the dark clouds surrounding the concession. In November last year, the minister at the 5th stakeholders’ forum in Abuja said for the four airports, a consortium comprising  Messrs. Infrata (Lead),  Dentons, Proserve Energy Services Ltd has submitted its Outline Business Case (OBC) report which is being reviewed by the ICRC. However, it was not clear when the concession would come into reality prompting apprehension among industry players on whether or not the concession programme is still on course. The Federal Government has also yet to settle the age-long concession dispute between the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport terminal two (MMA2). Our correspondent reports that despite several visits by relevant government agencies and seeming endless assurances, the problem is yet to be resolved. The delay in the concession has raised insinuation of whether government has succumbed to pressure by aviation unions, majority of which had rejected the planned concession and vowed to resist it. General Secretary of the Nigerian Aviation Professionals’ Association (NAPA), Comrade Razaq Saidu, insists that concession cannot work and which explains why the government has been dilly-dallying about it. He said the unions’ position has not changed on the concession plan being a wrong approach to developing airports in Nigeria. However, a source close to government said the concession programme is on course as the minister was going about the programme in strict compliance with the rule of law and due process to avoid any pitfall. Mr. James Odaudu, a spokesman in the Ministry of Transportation (Aviation) said, ‘the concession of airports is a very strategic component of the aviation sector roadmap. It is on course, with the transaction advisers having submitted a Draft Business Case to the ministry for consideration and further action.” Airports concession is a must — Sirika Issues as FG concessions Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt airports Aviation: 2017 in retrospect