The discovery of a corpse in a well on Tuesday morning sparked another round of tension around Dutse Uku, a boundary community between Muslims and Christians in Jos North local government area of Plateau state where a similar occurrence led to skirmishes in late September last year. Daily Trust gathered that the deceased, aged 25, was suspected to have been killed on Monday night and dumped in a well. Upon the discovery of the corpse on Tuesday morning, tension had ensued around the city as youths began to mobilize to launch a reprisal before they were later dispersed by security operatives. A witness who sells wine around Tina Junction told our correspondent that the deceased was the son of a private security man working with the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN) close to Tina Junction. He said shortly after the discovery of the corpse, men of Operation Safe Haven and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) had arrived the area to calm nerves. Our correspondent who visited the area observed that some schools had close down with pupils seen returning home. However, Operation Safe Haven Media and Information Officer, Major Adam Umar said it was uncertain what led to the death of the young man but stated that the discovery had caused tension and panic which was eventually calmed when members of security agents dominated the area. Major Umar explained that, “the entire area is being dominated by our men; the police have evacuated the corpse and normal activities have returned.” On his part, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Tyopev Terna, confirmed the evacuation of the corpse from the well adding that investigation had began. Earlier, the Plateau State Government called for calm and saluted citizens for the courage to resist what it described as an “unprovoked actions that may threaten the hard-earned peace in the state.” The government, in a statement by the state Commissioner of Information and Communication, Yakubu Dati, asked citizens to avail security agents with the necessary information and encouraged communities to form joint vigilante groups to minimize criminality in their areas. He advised people on social media not to ignite crisis by reporting falsehood about the security situation in the state. He added that “the quick intervention of security agencies to the threat at Dutse Uku was as a result of the synergy between security agencies and the state government.” Tension in Jos over killing of motorcyclist Many feared dead as crisis rocks Jos over motorcyclist’s killing 2 persons electrocuted in Jos