The South South zonal chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has rejected the results of the governorship and State House of Assembly elections declared by INEC for Akwa Ibom, Cross River and Delta states because of anomalies and double standards. The APC Zonal National Vice Chairman, Ntufam Hilliard Etta, said yesterday that the party would do everything legitimately right to ensure that the alleged injustice did not stand and the perpetrators were brought to book. Eta, who said the results released by INEC were not a reflection of the wishes and wills of the people as expressed at various polling units, claimed that various returning officers of the states in connivance with agents of the PDP and cancelled results in APC’s areas of strength and which the party had hitherto won. The party, which called on INEC to speedily complete the process of conducting free, fair and credible elections in Rivers State to calm frayed nerves and douse tension, appealed to its members, supporters and youths to remain calm and not take the law into their hands in the face of an attempt of injustice. Eta said, “We have observed with great disappointment the ugly developments in the just concluded governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections held on Saturday, 9th of March, 2019, and the subsequent release of results by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for states of the South South geo-political zone; viz: Akwa Ibom, Cross River and Delta states. “We have received several complaints. There are also reports that where elections could not hold due to violence, results were announced in favour of the PDP. “Furthermore, in some units where the card readers failed, results were also allocated to such areas and subsequently announced in favour of the PDP. “Sadly, there are reported cases of box snatching in areas of APC strongholds, results were announced in favour of the PDP. It is incomprehensible that INEC could allow themselves to be so used to usurp the collective will of the people and this is equated to a broad day light robbery, and this is unacceptable,” the APC zonal national vice chairman said. APC rejects A’Ibom, C’River, Delta polls results Delta APC calls for cancellation of results over ballot snatching, over voting Makarfi faction rejects APC’s victory