President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday assured Nigerians that his administration will remain focused and committed to creating an inclusive and diversified economy, saying the dark days of impunity are gone for good. Receiving the leadership of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), led by Mr Obafemi Onashile, Buhari said growing the nation’s economy means ‘‘national growth must impact the silent majority.’’ “Nigerians have clearly spoken of their desire for the country to move forward. On our part, we remain committed to the Change Agenda. By the grace of God, and with your continued prayers and support, the dark days of impunity are gone for good,” he said. Buhari, while highlighting his administration’s achievements in stimulating the economy in the past three years, said his administration focused on key job-creating sectors such as agriculture and infrastructure development to boost the economy. On the incessant building collapses across the country, the president warned that those responsible for such incidents of professional negligence will face the full wrath of the law. He told members of the institute that the recent tragic incident in Lagos, and many others across the country, were a reminder of the need to strictly adhere to quality standards on construction projects. “Young innocent lives must never be lost due to incompetence and greed. Simply put, no corners must be cut. I want to assure you that those responsible for such incidents of professional negligence will feel the full wrath of the law,” he said. In his presentation, the President of NIQS, Onashile appealed to the Federal Government to create a Directorate of Quantity Surveying and Projects Costs Management to address the issue of unclear delineation of professional functions amongst construction professions within the Government. Onashile also made a case for quantity surveyors to be mandated and allowed to undertake cost management of projects of all forms on behalf of Government, among others. Collapsed Buildings: Buhari vows to sanction those responsible, says dark days of impunity gone APC, PDP in endless battle over corruption, economy Buhari to ministers-designate: Shun impunity