The 2019 governorship election in Katsina State is a two-horse contest between incumbent Governor Aminu Masari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Senator Yakubu Lado of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Both Masari and Lado are from the Southern Senatorial District of Katsina State, which is reputed for deciding elections in the state because of its bloc votes. Hence, Saturday’s governorship election is presumed to be dicey and interesting because of the expected splitting of votes from the zone between Masari and Lado. Lado’s financial muscle and lavish electioneering campaign codenamed, ‘Chanza Su Lado’, have probably endeared him to his supporters and admirers in the state. Added to that is his wife’s factor, which has also attracted a lot of women supporters to his cause. However, Lado will have to contend with several weaknesses, the most noticeable of which is his not being on ground, typical of his frequent absences from the state. “Unarguably, Senator Lado is not home-based; in fact, he is only seen regularly during elections,” a member of his party, Rabi Aliyu, admitted. “Perhaps, that would prove to be his undoing in Saturday’s governorship poll, but we would do our best to convince the electorate to vote for him,” Rabi said. Again, people are wary of his style of politics. Lado is alleged to be willing, any time, to strike deals with parties and candidates that can foot the bill. This alleged inconsistency and political compromise is likely to haunt him this time, some analysts have argued. For Governor Masari, however, his party (APC) is clearly dominant with large following in the state. Evidently, that was proved in the just-concluded presidential and National Assembly elections. In recent times, the APC has also received new influx of politicians with viable means and political structures. These include former Speaker, Umar Yau, Dr. Usman Bugaje, Abdullahi Tata, among others. Top PDP stalwarts such as Musa Nashuni and Sada Ilu have also rejoined the ruling party. Besides, Masari is seen as a grassroots politician and his allocation of at least one project per ward across the state, has helped to reinforce that narrative in people’s perception. Furthermore, his recent appointment of LGA administrators has equally boosted his acceptability, earning him new canvassers and foot soldiers. Governor Masari was also recently endorsed by civil servants, teachers and health workers, whose hearts he had won through prompt payment of salaries, allowances and promotions. Beyond that, Masari’s re-election bid received a remarkable boost when 12 out of the 18 gubernatorial candidates of other political parties stepped down and endorsed his candidature, promising to mobilize for him. In contrast, however, Masari’s weakness could stem from within the APC, namely the Abubakar Ismaila Isa group (the APC-Akida), though not much has been heard from the group of recent. 2011 elections: Who are CPC candidates in Katsina? 2015: Déjà vu in Katsina? Senator Lado’s shot from obscurity