The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has presented “Grand Diamond Excellence Award’’ to Mrs Aisha Buhari, Wife of the Nigerian President, for her support to the agency. Some other distinguished Nigerians also received different categories of awards for their contributions to the agency as NAFDAC marks 25th anniversary on Tuesday in Abuja. Prof. Moji Adeyeye, the Director-General of the agency, commended Mrs Buhari for her unending support to NAFDAC and for the passion she displays towards the welfare of Nigerian women and children. “Mrs Aisha Buhari, through her Foundation, set up the Future Assured Programme, to focus attention and make a difference in the lives of women and children by addressing challenges in child and maternal health. “She has constructed a fully equipped maternity complex at the Daura General Hospital with a view to expanding the network of maternity services accessible to women across the country. “She has also called attention to children with hydrocephalus and other related conditions, sponsoring surgeries for victims,” Adeyeye noted. The NAFDAC director-general also commended all other awardees for their support to the agency over the years.
Adeyeye said that NAFDAC deserved to roll out the drums in celebration because of its achievements over the past two decades. “The pioneer managements of NAFDAC laid solid foundations upon which we are now building, and we have reasons to celebrate. “Our World Health Organisation (WHO) rating has improved and it keeps improving as time goes on, and we are now a fiscally responsible agency,’’ she said. The president’s wife appreciated the award and pledged further support to the agency. “I thank NAFDAC for this award and I pledge to continue to support the agency in its mandate to rid our country of fake and unwholesome products. “This Silver Jubilee is a significant milestone in the life of NAFDAC, and its mandate to enhance the health of the nation though quality control of food and drug is huge, and you have done well. “The advent of NAFDAC has stemmed the tide of the prevalence of fake and contaminated medicines, and we commend effort of the management of the agency,” she said. Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa (Rtd.), former Military Administrator of Lagos State, and Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Drug Abuse (PACEDA), also commended NAFDAC for the awards and its achievements over the years. “I want to commend NAFDAC for giving honour to whom honour is due. The Wife of the President has done well in the areas of child and maternal health,” he said. Marwa lamented that about 15 million Nigerians use and abused drugs. He however assured that PACEDA had taken steps to check the demand and the supply sides of drug abuse. On his part, the Comptroller General of Nigerian Customs, retired Col. Hameed Ali, commended NAFDAC for its effective collaboration with the service to check importation of fake drugs into the country. “The successes we have witnessed are as a result of effective synergy and collaboration,” he said. Other recipients include a posthumous award to late Prof. Olikoye Ransom-Kuti, former minister of health, and late Prof. Dora Akunyili, a former director-general of the agency. (NAN) Akunyili and her war against counterfeit medicines Boko Haram: Aisha Buhari, others unveil initiative for women, IDPs Magu bags anti-corruption crusader of the year award in U.S.