Two members of a syndicate the police described as specialists in stealing expensive phones ordered through the online platform have been arrested. The suspects, Obinna Anyanwu and Ernest Chinonso, were arrested at the Ikotun Egbe area of Lagos while allegedly attempting to collect two android phones they had ordered online. The arrest followed a complaint from a shop owner who complained to the police of huge losses he had recorded through online orders. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, who confirmed the arrest, said that the Command had received information that Anyanwu ordered two android phones separately valued at N100,000 and N83,000 through the online platform in a manner characteristic of some earlier reported cases of phone theft. Oti said that the person who ordered for the consignments directed the dealer to deliver the phones to him at Ikotun Egbe, where the dealer would purportedly be paid for the phones, unknown to the dealer that the man who placed the order belonged to a group of dreaded armed robbers. “At the point of delivery, the victim was rounded up by three armed men who had a stand-by motorcycle. They shot him on the thigh and took the two phones from him. “On receipt of the report, a combined team of OP-MESA and SARS operatives were mobilised to the scene. On sighting the operatives, one of the robbers fled with their operational motorcycle, together with the two phones. But luck ran against the remaining two as they were apprehended at the spot. They were immediately searched and a cut-to-size triple barrel gun was recovered from them. “During interrogation, the suspects gave their names as Obinna Anyanwu and Ernest Chinonso. They are currently assisting the operatives with useful information that will lead to the arrest of the other fleeing member of the gang,” he said. Oti said the arrested two suspects would soon be charged to court.   Taskforce raids criminal hideouts, arrests 76 robbery suspects Cleric in trouble for defiling 5-year-old pupil 26-yr-old woman arrested for stealing BlackBerry phone valued at N170,000