On May 29, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State will hand over power to the governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, a former deputy speaker of the House of Assembly, who emerged on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The governor is also battling to receive his Certificate of Return to the Senate, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is withholding, on the allegation that he was declared winner of the National Assembly election in his zone under duress. Does this signal an end to a political era? Daily Trust on Sunday reports. After eight years as the governor of Imo State and a failed attempt to install his son-in-law as successor, Rochas Okorocha is battling to remain politically relevant. His ambition to proceed to the National Assembly as a senator is also under threat as the INEC has said they would not issue with a Certificate of Return because his victory is questionable. In 2011, Okorocha rode on the popularity of the late Ikemba Odumegwu Ojukwu to win governorship election in Imo State on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). His election was also made easy by the fact that the people of the state were not satisfied with the Ikedi Ohakim administration. Led by the Catholic Church, the people of the state had sought for a replacement and Okorocha qualified as the best candidate. But on May 7, 2013, few years after election, Okorocha dumped the APGA for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Following his action, Imo became the only APC state in the South-East. To make the party relevant in the region, Okorocha was elected the chairman of the All Progressives Governors Forum, an umbrella body of all governors elected on the platform the APC. Unpopular policies soon began to put him at crossroads with the people of the state. Civil service administration suffered greatly as workers began to groan under late and sometimes non-payment of salaries. When they were paid, salaries came in trickles and were even slashed. Pensioners also groaned under non-payment of allowances.  His urban renewal policy also got him into trouble as a section of the people accused him of appropriating their lands. Again, the local government administration was completely destroyed. Immediately he assumed power in 2011, he dissolved elected local government administrators and local councils were administered by caretaker committees. Most of the governor’s loyalists later became disenchanted and began to desert him in droves. On August 26, 2017, Governor Okorocha came into direct confrontation with the people when he destroyed the largest market in the state, Eke Ukwu Lorji. The commotion from that action was deafening. The killing of a 10-year-old boy, Somtochukwu Ibeanusi, during the demolition, attracted headlines. By this action, Okorocha is said to have completely lost track with the people. Early last year, the governor disclosed his plan for a successor when he announced his chief of staff, Uche Nwosu, as the next governor of the state. The outrage that followed this announcement was palpable. Despite all entreaties for a sense of reasoning, he stuck to his guns. Apart from anointing Nwosu, Okorocha also apportioned elective positions to his friends and cronies. He gave the seat of Imo West senatorial district to himself, his deputy, Eze Madumere, got Imo East while his anointed candidates cut across majority of the constituencies in the state. Left with no other option, majority of the members of the party, led by his former commissioner for information and strategy, Dr. Theodore Ekechi, formed the APC Restoration Coalition.  On March 7, 2018, at the country home of Ekechi in Imerienwe, Ngor-Okpala Local Government Area, the coalition proclaimed what they called Imerienwe Declaration, where they mapped out a strategy to wrest power from Okorocha. Enumerating their grievances, the coalition had said, “Having been seeing and witnessing contemptible, despicable and condemnable happenings in our great party in the state in recent times, we are convinced that unless urgent steps are quickly taken in calling certain people to order, the APC is headed for a shameful, abysmal and colossal failure in the state in the 2019 elections. “We totally condemn clandestine endorsements, indiscriminate adoptions and wanton ‘anointment’ of certain elements in the party without due process and respect for party leadership. It is quite disturbing that these endorsements obtained by blackmail, coercion and intimidation are taking place in the Imo State Government House under the watch of the governor.’’ While Okorocha kept a deaf ear to these entreaties, the coalition was determined to wrest the control of party structure from him. This was to prevent him from foisting his preferred choice on the party as gubernatorial candidate. The opportunity came during the party’s primary election. The coalition, now joined by Okorocha’s deputy, Eze Madumere, fought a gallant battle that saw the governor losing out at the primary election at ward, local government and state levels. This victory by the coalition began to put Okorocha’s succession plan in jeopardy. The action by this group finally got a final seal when a new entrant to the party, Senator Hope Uzodinma, against all expectations, clinched the party’s governorship ticket. This completely put the governor out of contention. In utter desperation, the governor, while still sticking to his senatorial ambition under the ruling APC, encouraged his son-in-law to seek election on the platform of the Action Alliance (AA). The outcome has become history. Ekechi said in an interview that, “It is common knowledge that Owelle Rochas Okorocha, in his second tenure, clearly caught the image of a chameleon. He was no longer the humble, unassuming and listening populist that Imolites gallantly railroaded to Government House on May 7, 2011. “The founding members of the party were alarmed that the way, manner and speed Okorocha was transmuting himself to an “emperor” portended great danger to the socio-political and economic life of not only Imo people but the Igbo and Nigeria as a whole. “Probably, Okorocha’s greatest undoing was his attempt to brazenly foist his son-in-law, who doubled as his chief of staff, as his successor. Certainly, this was an insult to the sensitivity of every sane Imo citizen. Every attempt made to get him rescind his decision was greeted with unmitigated disdain and rebuff.’’ With the defeat of Nwosu and the senatorial seat almost slipping out of his hand, analysts are beginning to ponder if it is the beginning of the end of Okorocha’s political dynasty. While Nwosu has engaged in what many have described as a tortuous legal battle against the outcome of the 2019 governorship election in the state, his father-in-law is on a battle to get a Certificate of Return for the Orlu senatorial zone in the 9th National Assembly. The outcome of these struggles will largely decide the political future of the Okorocha dynasty. However, Ekechi does not think it is the end of Okorocha’s political career. According to him, “We have factions in the two major political parties. The fault lines in these parties are palpable and each of these factions may be willing to accept him, even if it is to score some political points. As smart and deft as he is, he may take this to full advantage.’’ Okorocha’s special assistant on electoral matters, Steve Asimobi, also dismissed any insinuation of a bleak political future for his boss, saying, “We are fighting to reclaim the mandate Imo people gave to the Action Alliance in the governorship election, as well as getting the INEC to issue a Certificate of Return to Okorocha. Both actions, we pray, would be positive. We know that lots of injustices went on during the election and we hope the courts would correct them.’’ Addressing youths at the State House in Owerri, Okorocha argued that the INEC withheld his Certificate of Return to the Senate without hearing his own side of the story. He said the action was an insult to his person and a mockery of Nigeria’s democracy. But the national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of the INEC, Festus Okoye, said that as a law-abiding commission, they would wait for the verdict of the court, where the governor has taken the matter to. “When a matter is pending in court, the best thing is to allow the judicial process to run its course. If at the end of the day the court makes an order that we should give him the Certificate of Return, of course the commission will obey. If on the order hand the court takes a different position, we will also comply.’’ He said Okorocha’s case was not an isolation as the INEC also declined to issue a Certificate of Return to the person who was declared winner in Oju/Obi federal constituency in Benue State, on the ground that it was done under duress. He added that there were other cases at Agaie in Niger State and a constituency in Akwa Ibom State. Asked if there would be fresh election in the affected places, Okoye said most of the people involved had already gone to court; hence INEC would allow the judiciary to do its job. Speaking on the action of the INEC, a human rights lawyer, Ebun Olu-Adegboruwa, said the electoral umpire had no power to determine the fate of a candidate already declared winner in an election. “That will be tantamount to usurping the will of the people,” he added. INEC issues Okorocha certificate of return Groups fault INEC for withholding Okorocha’s certificate Senate: Okorocha, Izunaso, Uwajumogu  make INEC provisional list