Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, yesterday said the committee set up by the government to probe the allegation of sodomy, cannibalism, sucking of human blood, eating human faeces and substance abuse at the School for the Deaf, Kuje, FCT, has submitted its report. Mr Adamu who made the statement at a press conference in Abuja said the report, was full of loopholes because in spite several invitations both orally and in writing, the committee could not reach the complainant, one Dr. Hannatu Usman Ayuba who alleged that her son, one Muhammad Imran Kanun, a pupil in the school, was sodomised by an older pupil in primary five and had his body pierced and his blood sucked. He said in their report, the committee indicated that all efforts to get the petitioner to appear before it failed, as she kept citing various excuses, including attending a course and travelling out of Abuja. “The committee, however, debunked most of her claims of poor feeding, poor sanitation, missing children and cannibalism in the vicinity of the school in Kuje,” he said. However, Dr Ayuba, agreed by telephone that she was invited by the committee “at very short notice” and she and her son could not appear before it because her son was traumatized by the disturbing experience, more so, a medical report suggested that he should not face questioning on the matter. The minister said an aspect of the committee’s work, namely the issue of child sexual abuse, was already in court. The minister further said the police report to the committee stated that they were able to obtain a confession from one pupil, the alleged abuser of Kanun. “The police said pupil admitted abusing the child. The police have since commenced prosecution and remanded accused in prison.” On poor feeding and children eating faeces, the minister said the committee found out that pupils were reasonably fed and that there was no evidence of malnutrition as observed by it and confirmed by the 12-member independent medical team that was constituted by the FCT Administration to examine the children. “The claim of children eating faeces is, therefore, ridiculous and irresponsible,” he said. On sexual abuse, cannibalism, sucking of human blood and existence of cult in Kuje area which initiates children into it, he said, the police and security report did not lend any credence to all these allegations of untoward things taking place in the school or in the Kuje area. He said, “No parent reported any missing child or of children dying in the school at least for the past five years. The medical team I had mentioned earlier which comprised 12 doctors from both the public and private sectors, carried out a random medical examination on 170 out of the 630 children of the school and did not find any evidence to support this claim. There was also no evidence of blood extraction found. These allegations are, therefore, unfounded and baseless.” The minister said the committee recommended that Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras be installed in special schools, parents should allow access to hostels and hostels shouldn’t be overcrowded and must have an adequate supply of electricity among others. FG probes allegation of sodomy, cannibalism in Abuja school Not even in Hammer House of Horror The ugly faces of Zamfara primary schools