The Bauchi State chapters of Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) have reacted to the latest decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ‎on the disputed Tafawa Balewa local government area election results. On its part, the PDP commended the INEC ‎for its decision to re-collate and adopt the governorship election results from Tafawa Balewa local government area. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, while speaking to journalists in Bauchi on Saturday, said that the committee sent by the electoral body had done a good job by allowing people’s will to prevail. “They have done justice. We cried foul and they set up a committee to investigate and the committee has done justice. To us, we still have confidence in INEC. “What we don’t have confidence in are the police and other security agents who were compromised in all these issues. We don’t have confidence in the Commissioner of police, we done have confidence in the Director SSS because they are another set of M.A Abubakar,”he said. In his reaction, the Bauchi State APC Organising Secretary, Lawan Gyan-Gyan said that PDP’s claim on Tafawa Balewa was frivolous. “If you compare the votes President Buhari got against that of Atiku Abubakar in the Presidential election and what they dish out this time, you will know that, they rigged and cook up the figures. “Like I told you in the past, PDP is used to rigging.‎ If not, why don’t they want a supplementary election in Tafawa Balewa? They wrote a petition so that, the results would be taken as presented. But ‎we thank Allah that the committee recommended the re-collation. “What I want to tell you is that, the PDP is jittery because they cannot win a single Polling Unit in other places across the state where we are looking at a little over 22,000 votes. I am telling you, we will close the gap, beat the PDP and win the election Insha Allah,” he said. It could be recalled that the results from Tafawa Balewa were earlier rejected after the local government Collation officer, Mrs Dominion Anosike said that there was intimidation and violence at the Collation Center. Bauchi PDP commends INEC over decision on Tafawa Balewa results UPDATED: Bauchi governor may emerge on Tuesday as INEC resumes collation PDP, APC trade words over INEC decision in Bauchi