Chief George Moghalu is the National Auditor of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview, he speaks about the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, the clamour for Igbo presidency in 2023, suspension of key party leaders, pending election of new officers of the National Assembly and relationship between the presidency and party, among other issues. Excerpts: Daily Trust: Is it right for some Nigerians to describe President Buhari’s re-election as a pyrrhic victory? Chief George Moghalu: One thing about politics in this country is that we are bad losers. People really find it difficult to accept defeat. And this is the first thing we must address in our democratic culture and as a people. In most cases, you find people protesting that an election was rigged but the simple question I always ask is whether rigging is determined by the calibre of the candidate who lost. They claimed that Kwara was rigged because Bukola Saraki lost, but I asked, what happened to Oyo where a sitting governor, Abiola Ajimobi, lost? What happened in Plateau where APC lost, in Benue where George Akume lost? So, there was no rigging because it is only where the opposition party loses that the issue of rigging comes up. As far as I am concerned, the presidential and National Assembly elections were fair, free and credible, especially taking into consideration the reports from the foreign and domestic observers. Yes, nobody claims it was a perfect election since we have not reached that stage. Not even the civilised democracies have reached the point of perfect election. But all said and done, it was a good election. DT: Why has it been difficult for the APC to make appreciable mark in the South East considering the figures from that geo-political zone? Moghalu: I had wished that my party APC wins 100 per cent in the South East. That is why other leaders and I are there but, in this recent election, we did not actualise our vision for our people. My people did not respond the way we wanted them to. However, if you place it side by side with what happened in the 2015 election, there is a remarkable improvement. For me, since democracy is a process, we will keep working to improve our fortune in the next election. We will be spreading our message that this government has come to serve the Nigerian people, South East inclusive. There are strategic projects this government is executing in my region that has the capacity to endear our government to the people. Don’t also forget that we faced strong challenge from the opposition party with a vice presidential candidate from the region. DT: With the realities on ground, will the 2023 presidency carrot APC dangled at the South East still be possible? Moghalu: Why not? It is not about rejecting Mr. President but a case of more people not believing in our party, the APC. However, I have always warned that power is not given but taken. You have to work for it. So, it is clear to us from the South East that we need to work for power if we want to get it in 2023. It cannot be served on the table to us because it is our turn. We have to need to demonstrate our commitment to the party, to stand on a very high moral ground to make a demand. It is obvious that we have the challenge of convincing our compatriots and party leaders on why power should shift to the South East. We are going to work towards it. DT: Don’t you think the issue of restructuring must have played a major role in APC’s rejection in the South East? Moghalu: I don’t think so. We must first come out clearly for people to understand what restructuring is. I can place a bet on it that 70 to 80 per cent of those clamouring for restructuring don’t know what they are asking for. For some, it is about dismembering the country, for others it is about bringing down the entire structure to create a new one, yet for others, it is about addressing the economy, infrastructural development. Let us look at what we have to get as a people in the government of the day. We cannot be talking about restructuring and at the same time talking about presidency for the Igbo nation in 2023. It is a clear contradiction. I am among those who said that Ohaneze has no business in dragging the Igbo nation through the same route we passed in 2015, which created political problems for us. Ohaneze adopted former President Goodluck Jonathan and he lost the election, and where did it place us? The same group of people dragged us through the same route in 2019 by adopting the PDP candidate, which has also now led us to nowhere. Why can’t Ohaneze disassociate itself from politics and continue its role as a socio-cultural organisation that speaks for the Igbo nation? Some notable Igbo sons and daughters are strong APC members as well as Ohaneze members, so how can the same group I am a member of oppose my political view by adopting my opponent as a candidate and expect me to pledge my loyalty to such group? It is impossible; I will rather fight and challenge the group. That was the position many of us took. The group would have been standing a solid ground if it was neutral and allowed the sons and daughters of Igbo nation to play politics according to their interest and sentiment. As people looking for relevance and to be part of the government, Ohaneze would have allowed its sons and daughters to pursue it from various platforms so that anyone that succeeds at the end, the interest of the Igbo nation will be projected and protected. DT: What is your take on the comment by Mr. President that the next four years will be tough? Moghalu: The president was right in telling Nigerians that the next four years will be tough because building a structure will never be easy. There must be a surgery to remove a tumour. The healing will start after the surgery. Government, cautious of these challenges, has been addressing it systematically. It has done it with the various empowerment programmes it introduced, which is intended to ameliorate the difficulties. There is the Tradermoni concept, the N-Power, the school feeding among others, which are intended to cushion the challenges facing Nigerians with regards to governance. The meaning of what Mr. President said is that we should be ready to take responsibility. DT: Won’t the recent wave of suspensions of members be counterproductive to the party? Moghalu: The suspension was a party decision that must be separated from the government. As a party, we needed to put issues straight as it is, for everybody to know where the party stands. The decision to suspend was a collective one. It came after warnings have been issued in the past that the party will not accept a situation where the chances of our candidates are being diminished by the actions of members holding responsible positions in government. DT: Do you see Buhari changing from his nepotistic political appointments in his second term? Moghalu: I won’t agree that his appointments are nepotistic but if say that, we need to expand political base in terms of appointments. He has made it very clear that every part of Nigeria is his constituency. He has demonstrated that by his appointments. Don’t forget that most of the appointments are statutory and a good number of the appointments have been sufficiently balanced. However, like every other human being, we would prefer our appointments to come from our places. That is human being for you. We must also separate personal staff from public appointments. Service Chiefs, like he has tried to explain in many instances, may be through seniority or laid down procedure. Somebody at the level of Mr. President has more information than many of us. He has been guided by such information many of us may not be privy to but that is not to say that I will not wish to see every part of Nigeria comfortably accommodated in the appointments and I can tell you that Mr. President and the government are conscious of this fact. DT: What is the party putting in place to ensure that it will not mismanage the emergence of principal officers in the National Assembly? Moghalu: When two are involved, there must certainly be different approaches. The current national chairman is different from his predecessor. This current chairman has his own way of doing things and getting results. What I know is that we value all the people elected on our platform. The party will give everybody the opportunity to try and the party will also play its role firmly. DT: Do you see the relationship between the presidency and national leadership of the party changing from its ugly past? Moghalu: We must understand that there is a new leadership in the party. Certainly, the relationship will change from what it was in the past because of the leadership represented by the chairman. Except for few of us that came back, the APC NWC of the last regime is not the same with what we have now. I can tell you that attitudinal relationship will certainly change and how results will be achieved will certainly be different. DT:  What is your take on attacks, intimidation and disenfranchisement of Igbos by their host communities? Moghalu: To the best of my knowledge, the APC never encouraged voting based on religion or tribe. We made it clear that people are free to exercise their franchise in line with the dictates of their conscience. If you notice throughout the campaign, the chairman consistently adopted campaign mantra of one man, one vote. It is not fair for a group to be disenfranchised and I will never be part of it. Moghalu joins Anambra gov’ship race APC congratulates Trump Twists and turns as APC shifts Anambra guber primaries