As part of efforts at making youth from its host communities employable, Dangote Petroleum Refinery & Petrochemicals Company, yesterday, flagged off a vocational training scheme that will inculcate necessary skills in the young men and women from Ibeju-Lekki area of its operation to make them marketable. Dangote Group Executive Director, Capital Projects, Mr Devakumar Edwin, said the initiative is a demonstration of Dangote Refinery’s commitment towards capacity building and youth empowerment in the country. The vocational skills scheme, which was launched in collaboration with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), was designed to cover plumbing, masonry, welding, iron bending, auto mechanics and electrical works. Edwin stated that the scheme, geared towards instant value addition to the lives of the youth and their communities, will equip the young men with trade skills that would prepare them for better opportunities. At the colourful ceremony, which was attended by top Obas and community leaders including the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, and all the Baales in the host communities, Dangote Group boss said the company would continue to invest in projects that would add value to the lives of the people in the communities hosting its facilities across the country. “At Dangote Industries Limited, our corporate social responsibility projects are centred around the development and wellbeing of the people, especially our host communities. “In Ibeju Lekki, we have executed several projects that are enhancing the lives of the people. We have provided boreholes for all the communities, classrooms for the local school, and we just awarded scholarships to 51 secondary school students,” he said. The Manager, Projects Certification and Authorisation Division (PCAD), NCDMB, Engr. Frank Ibi, who represented the Executive Secretary, Engr. Simbi Wabote, commended Dangote Refinery on its achievements and underlined that Nigerian content is geared to promote domiciliation of value-adding activities and utilization of the country’s human and material resources. In his remarks, Oba Akiolu said the programme was unprecedented in that the company was yet to start operation but yet decided to empower youth from the area to make them employable. The monarch urged the youth to utilize the skills which they will acquire through the training programme. The Oba, who commended Dangote Refinery for its unwavering support to community development initiatives in Lagos State, emphasized the need for the youth to work hard and be close to God. Oba of Lagos commends Dangote on youth empowerment programme Dangote/BUA clash: Edo Gov shuts down disputed Obu mines NDE equips unemployed FCT youths