The deputy governorship candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) in Rivers state in March 9 gubernatorial poll, Chief Akpo Bomba Yeeh, has defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Bomba Yeeh, a running mate Biokpomabo Awara of AAC was on Monday at the Government House in Port Harcourt to meet with Governor Nyesom Wike. He said the state developed by her founding fathers should be sustained by the efforts of all patriots. He said that he decided to defect to PDP because of his conviction that Wike is a man of vision. He said: “Today, I am in your midst to declare my defection to the PDP.  Governor Wike is a man of vision. He is a man of compassion. It is his compassion that endears him to the people of Rivers state.  I choose to identify with him to move the state forward.” He added that as a retired security personnel, he will work with Governor Wike to promote the security of the state. Bomba Yeeh informed Governor Wike that he has officially withdrawn his candidacy of AAC. “I officially announce the withdrawal of my candidacy for the AAC. My loyalty is with the PDP. I cannot afford to leave the fast lane and go to the slow lane”, he said. Receiving the AAC deputy governorship candidate, Rivers state governor,  Nyesom Wike, said that no one man’s  interest is bigger than the state, declaring that all leaders must work together to move the state forward. Governor Wike said history will be kind to the former AAC deputy governorship candidate for placing Rivers’ interest above personal consideration. He thereafter received Bomba Yeeh alongside PDP National Chairman,  Prince Uche Secondus, Rivers State PDP Chairman,  Bro Felix Obuah,  former Rivers State Governor, Sir Celestine Omehia,  Senator-elect Barry Mpigi and other leaders in the state. He said: “History will be on your side. You have shown that the interest of the state is above personal consideration. God will not only protect you, He will reward you for this decision. “Rivers state is the only state we have. Everyone must work together to move this state forward. It is important to take this state to greater heights. “It is not everyone that can take this kind of decision. It requires maturity to take this kind of decision “. The governor said all leaders of Rivers state irrespective of their political affiliations must work in unity to develop the state. In his remark, Prince Secondus said: “This is a welcome development. This is what a normal situation is supposed to be. The people will see the reason why we must work together. This is an uncommon decision. You have taken a wise decision because you have the interest of the people at heart”. Secondus also called on INEC to bring the Rivers election to a logical conclusion, so that the people can continue with their  lives. Rivers: Amaechi-backed AAC Guber candidate wants INEC to declare him winner Rivers deputy governor defects to PDP 2019: Wike plans for a comeback to Rivers’ Brick House