The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) says the decision to endorse Senator Ahmed Lawan as the next Senate President was taken after consultations nationwide. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who fielded questions from journalists, yesterday in Abuja, said President Muhammadu Buhari and governors-elected on the  platform of the party had been consulted. Issa-Onilu, who said it was not a sole decision of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the National Working Committee (NWC), reiterated the party’s stand that it would not share power with the PDP in the National Assembly. He said there was no room for power sharing in a presidential system of government as currently practiced in the country, accusing the PDP of exhibiting gross ignorance of party politics. “We don’t need those who have been rejected by Nigerians. Nigerians cannot give us a mandate and share part of it for those whom they have rejected,” he said. Issa-Onilu, who said the APC has the number to claim its rightful positions in the National Assembly, voiced confidence that Sen. Ali Ndume, who declared interest to become Senate president, would finally give in to party supremacy. He said the much-expected zoning formula on party positions in the National Assembly would soon be revealed and promised that APC would do its homework to ensure seamless emergence of leaders in the 9th legislative chambers. He said it was legal for the party to zone positions and determine the members to occupy such positions at any level of government, either at the executive or legislative arm. Issa-Onilu, who lauded the decision of the Rotimi Amaechi-led APC camp in Rivers State to back the governorship candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) who shared similar vision in the absence of APC candidate, said the party could not take any action on INEC’s decision not to give Certificate of Return as senator-elect to Governor Rochas Okorocha who remained under suspension. On the suspension of Sen Kabiru Marafa in Zamfara State, the APC spokesman said though the party didn’t have all the facts on the issue, the ward level could suspend a member if the action was taken within the ambit of the party’s constitution.  PDP’s ambition to produce next Senate President, exercise in futility -APC Why we endorsed Ahmed Lawan - APC APC: We’ll win supplementary elections