Members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will this afternoon hold an emergency meeting at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Our correspondent gathered from reliable sources that the meeting would discuss the rerun elections slated for Saturday and review strategies aimed at getting victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. Meanwhile the PDP has petitioned the National judicial Council (NJC) over what it termed violation of the Constitution and Electoral Act by Justice Ekwo Inyang of the Federal High Court, Abuja. The party said Justice Iyang presided over a matter that ought to have been handled by an election petition tribunal, as created by the provisions of the Nigerian laws. The PDP in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan argued that in granting an exparte order stopping the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from concluding the governorship election in Bauchi State, Justice Inyang violated Section 87(11) of the Electoral Act, which states that no court has the power or jurisdiction to stop any election pending the determination of a suit. “The PDP insists that not only did Justice Inyang violate the clear provisions of the Electoral Act, the motion granted is also an affront to the electoral wishes of the people of Bauchi State who have clearly chosen their next governor in voting for the PDP’s candidate, Sen. Bala Mohammed. “The PDP urges the NJC to save our democracy by taking an urgent step against the violations by Justice Inyang. “In an affidavit sworn to by the PDP’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, in Abuja, the party notes that issues of collation of results and declaration of winner, is a post-election event and, therefore, falls under the Electoral Act and Constitutional provisions for the election petition tribunal. PDP drags Justice Inyang to NJC over halting of Bauchi guber result collation PDP set to sue INEC, APC this week, petitions UN, others PDP, INEC frustrating us at Rivers elections tribunal - APC 19