An Okitipupa Magistrate Court in Okitipupa local government area of Ondo state has dissolved a nine-year-old marriage over accusation that the wife starved her husband of sex and ill-treatment. The 43 years old petitioner, Mr Olutola Akinlose had dragged his wife, Mrs Oyinade Akinlose, before the court urging for the dissolution of the marriage. After successfully discharging the burden of proof that he has long suffered and endured in his marriage for nine years, the court granted the husbands prayer and dissolved the marriage on the grounds of sex deprivation, cruelty and ill treatment. According to the civil summons filed on January 7, 2019, the petitioner, Mr. Akinlose, claimed that the estranged wife, Mrs. Akinlose has always denied him of his conjugal rights. “My lord, my wife always refuses me to sleep with her until our family mediate between us and begged her beyond imagination before she would allow me” he told the court. According to him, he last had sex with his wife about three months earlier, until December 30th, 2018 after the family had intervened. Aggrieved and dissatisfied with the above, he was of the opinion that he needed separation from the respondent. He equally prayed the court to grant him the custody of the first two children of the marriage. The respondent, however, said the petitioner did not allow her to move freely as she desired. She added that the petitioner sometime in December 2018 destroyed her personal belongings because she attended a meeting and left the children uncared for. In his judgement, the presiding Magistrate, Adedeji O. Adebisi said it is obvious that the marriage has failed and broken down irretrievably. He held that not granting the petitioner’s prayer may lead to further exceptional hardship and depravity. The Magistrate however dissolved the marriage and ordered that the custody of the first child Oreofe Akinlose (8) and Joshua Akinlose (6) be granted to the petitioner. But the respondent was permitted to visit the children as much as she desires during reasonable hours and with reasonable notice. However, the custody of the third child was granted to the respondent with the visitation rights of the petitioner. Court ends 21-yr-old marriage over neglect Court dissolves 30-years marriage over wife’s infidelity Court dissolves 2-year-old marriage over wife’s constant checking of husband’s phone