The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has said that weaknesses exposed in the country’s judiciary are disturbing. The Vice President stated that of the two possible paths to halt the drift, the path of ‘business as usual’ could lead to the extinction of the credibility of the legal profession, while the right but ‘difficult path’ is the path of renewal. Speaking as an awardee at the Body of Benchers Nigeria Award Night at the National Judicial Institute (NJI) in Abuja on Friday, Osinbajo, said the situation in the judiciary provides opportunity for deep introspection and self-assessment. “This always presents opportunity for reforms to reclaim the tradition of virtuous ethics, moral inquiry and doggedness in the dispassionate and impartial application of law no matter whose ox is gored,” he said. “We owe the young, aspiring lawyers a duty to set the ground rules right and to lead by example. We as custodians of law owe our nation at the very least, a duty to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system. “Our professional practice and the courts must always measure up to the moral, ethical and statutory standards that we ascribe to.” Also speaking, Senate President Bukola Saraki charged the senior lawyers and benchers to continue in their role of ensuring peace and justice in the society. He commended the awardees for their role in preserving the nation’s “democracy, ethical conduct and judicial integrity.” The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara warned of the dangers of continuing disobedience to court orders and the abuse of the rule of law. “All of us shouldn’t pretend that all is well. There is a lot of work to be done. We have not hit the bottom, but certainly, indications are that if care is not taken, we may be headed for the bottom,” he said. In his remarks, acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammed congratulated the awardees and asked them to continue to sustain the integrity of the legal profession. Awards were given to 43 former chairmen of the Body of Benchers, while 132 life benchers were honoured for their service. Osinbajo bags Life Bencher award All Eyes On Justice Onnoghen Osinbajo, good omen to rule of law - Fashola