A Federal High Court in Kano has sacked the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Engineer Abba Kabir Yusuf. The court, presided over by Justice Lewis Allagoa, said the primary election that produced Yusuf as PDP candidate for Kano was invalid. But the chairman of the PDP in Kano State, Dr Rabi’u Sulaiman Bichi, said the party has appealed the verdict and filed for a stay of execution. “Our candidate remains PDP candidate and will participate in the gubernatorial election come Saturday, March 9,” Bichi said. A PDP gubernatorial aspirant Alhaji Ibrahim Al-Amin, also known as Little, had sued the party before Justice Allagoa seeking a definite interpretation of whether the PDP has legal backing to produce flag-bearer without conducting primary election. He had told the court that the party denied him a right to contest in the primary even though he bought and filled nomination forms for the contest. Little also appealed to the court to declare the primary election that produced Yusuf as PDP gubernatorial candidate in Kano as illegal. Responding to the judgment, counsel to Little, Barrister Kabir Usman, expressed satisfaction to the verdict, adding that the PDP has between now and Friday to conduct fresh primary election and produce a new candidate. Counsel to the PDP, Barrister Bashir Yusuf, said his client would study the judgment before taking further actions. Also, the PDP gubernatorial aspirant expressed satisfaction with the verdict, noting that “Some people felt they can do and undo whatever they want. There are guidelines for contest but they violated them and thought they can go scot-free. This is injustice and Alhamdulilah, we sought for redress in court and the court had given its verdict. Period!” The primary election that produced Yusuf as PDP gubernatorial candidate was conducted by Dr Rabi’u Sulaiman Bichi-led PDP faction at Lugard House, a property owned by Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. The election which generated controversy was attended by only two – Alhaji Jafar Sani Bello and Abba Kabir Yusuf – of the six governorship aspirants. Bello described the primary as a kangaroo poll, alleging that he was rigged out by members of Kwankwasiyya, who dominated the venue to ensure victory for Yusuf, who was anointed by Kwankwaso. Other PDP’s aspirants then, include former Kano State Deputy Governor, Professor Hafiz Abubakar; Alhaji Ibrahim Al-Amin Little; Dr Akilu Sani Indabawa; Sadiq Aminu Wali and Malam Salihu Sagir Takai. Jafar Sani Bello told Daily Trust yesterday that with only five days to the gubernatorial election, it would be virtually impossible for the PDP to conduct primary election to produce a new candidate. “The only option at the party’s disposal now is to look for qualified candidates among its members and reach consensus to come up with a gubernatorial candidate. The era of impunity in politics is over,” he said. Court verdict won’t affect our candidate – PDP Contacted, Hajiya Binta Spikin, spokesperson of the Kwankwasiyya movement, said the verdict of the court does not affect the contest of Engineer Yusuf. “Yusuf is still the PDP gubernatorial flag bearer in Kano and will continue with preparations for the gubernatorial poll slated for Saturday, March 9. PDP is faced with 10 different court cases and survived all of them. So, the party will also survive this particular one and PDP will continue to be stronger in Kano,” she said. Also, a statement by Sanusi Bature Dawakin Tofa, the spokesperson of the PDP gubernatorial candidate, said “As far as we are concerned, our campaign activities will continue till Thursday night when the deadline for campaigns will elapse as contained in the electoral act 2010 as amended. “Yusuf remains the candidate of the People Democratic Party for the 2019 coming election on Saturday 9th of March, 2019. The case has nothing to do with the flag-bearer of the party, it is an internal issue with one of the aspirants and the party has taken the next step. “We are surprised that the news of the judgment came from the mouthpiece of Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje via social media before the court ruling was delivered, it is a fact that the ruling party (APC) is behind the scene on this case, they are determined to prostrate the opposition ahead of Saturday’s polls for the fear of unknown. “We call on all members of People Democratic Party and the teaming supporters of Engr. Abba K. Yusuf to remain calm and move forward with electioneering campaigns to ensure victory for the party come Saturday 9th of March, 2019.” When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Alhaji Garba Lawal, said if the court ordered the PDP to conduct fresh primary election and the party wrote to INEC, the commission would certainly honour the invitation and monitor the election.   Court dismisses case against Kano PDP gov’ship candidate Court dismisses case against Kano PDP guber candidate BREAKING: Court sacks Kwankwaso’s son in-law as Kano PDP guber candidate