Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has promised to set up a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to investigate the violent conflict and killings in Kajuru and Kachia Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. The governor stated this in Karamai village, in Kujama Local Government Area of the state where 40 persons were killed in a recent attack. While addressing the survivors of the attacks that took place last week in parts of the two local government areas, the governor condemned the attackers as godless people who he said are wantonly violating the injunctions of the Holy Books of Christianity and Islam. The governor commiserated with the people on the loss of lives. He appealed to them that even in their grief, they should resist any temptation of vengeance, because according to him the cycle of attacks and reprisals can only bring pain. He urged all communities to avoid any resort to self-help and report their complaints, suspicions and observations to law enforcement and security agencies. The governor also explained that building sustainable peace in the area requires that all the facts around the conflicts be established. Malam El-Rufai was accompanied on the visit by the heads of the security agencies in Kaduna State, including Rear Admiral D.M. Dogonyaro of the Nigerian Navy, General O.J. Akpor, the Garrison Commander, 1 Division Nigerian Army, Air Commodore I.A. Sani of the Nigerian Air Force and Police Commissioner Ahmad Abdurrahman. Also on the delegation were Priscilla Ankut and Saleh Momale of the Kaduna State Peace Commission. The delegation inspected the wreckage left behind by the attackers in Karamai, and prayed at the mass grave where 15 of the 40 residents killed were buried. A policeman was also killed in the attack. The chairman of Kachia Local Government, the District Heads of Kufana, Kajuru LGA, and Bishini in Kachia LGA and the Village Head of Karamai, also spoke at the event, explaining the plight of the people who were displaced from their homes after the attack and made suggestions for securing the areas. ‘Secret killers’ in southern Kaduna remain unknown Why Kajuru keeps erupting in crisis NEMA denies calling governor `liar’ over Kajuru killings