The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the promotion of 8,916 senior Police Officers to their next substantive ranks to fill existing vacancies. A statement on Sunday from the spokesman of the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, said the promotions were the high points of the 5th Plenary Meeting of the commission held in Abuja on Tuesday and Wednesday, 26th and 27th March 2019, presided over by its Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police. He said the commission approved the promotion of three Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Assistant Inspectors General of Police. They are; Jona Jackson Mava; Olushola Babajide David and Titus Sumba Lamorde. He said the acting appointments of two Commissioners of Police were also confirmed. The beneficiaries are; Rudolf Echebi Obe, Works and Danladi B. Lalas, Air Wing. He said 71 Assistant Commissioners of Police were elevated to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners of Police. They include Ogundare D. Emmanuel; Alonge Adebowale; Augustina Nwuka Ogbodo; Ibrahim Abdullahi; Garba Ahmed; Uzuegbu Kanayo; Zubairu Abubakar; Vincent N. Nwajiofor (works), Polycarp Chilaka Dibia and Emeka Frank Mba, the Force Public Relations Officer. He said 102 Chief Superintendents of Police (CSPs) were also promoted to Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACP). They are: Michael M. Masomene; Egbe Eko Edum; Onyeamu Akaeme Onyeamu; Dauda I. Ayuba; Chinedu C. Ugwu; Moses Gana; Victor Akongtender Bepeh; Aminu Musa; Danjuma Madugu; Promise Chinedu Udeh; Anthony Okon Placio; Ikechukwu E. Nwosu; Okey C. Nwabufo; Ayodeji A. Dagunduro; Kanu Kanu Okoronkwo (works); Agbo B. Usman (forensic); and Mustapha A. Rufai; among others. The commission also promoted 487 Deputy Superintendents of Police to Superintendents, Ani stated. He said the new Superintendents of Police include Atiku Ibrahim, Personal Assistant to the acting Inspector General of Police; Florence Odewo; Ojo Abraham; Mohammed Idris and Abraham Ogedengbe. He said 1,165 Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs) were promoted to the next rank of Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSP) while 7,086 Inspectors were elevated to Assistant Superintendents of Police. He said some of the new DSPs are:  Chinemelum Bartholomew of the Complaints Response Unit, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Jeremiah Zumnan; Adewale Ajibuwa while  Hope Nnah of Abia Command; Saviour Etetim made the list of the newly promoted Inspectors to ASPs. He said the promotions will be conveyed to the acting Inspector General of Police, tomorrow, Monday, April 1, 2019, in a letter signed by Nnamdi Maurice Mbaeri, Permanent Secretary and Secretary to the Commission. Police commission return special promotions, approves 6,455 officers Police commission promotes 6,455 senior officers PSC approves promotion of 239 senior police officers