A group under the platform of Coalition of Governorship Candidates in Rivers State on Sunday denied endorsing Governor Nyesom Wike as the sole candidate in March 9 governorship election in the state. The group, at a press briefing addressed by its Chairman, Pastor Ezekiel Zebulon  in Port Harcourt at the weekend, said it wholeheartedly disassociate itself from “the concocted, misguided and shameful endorsement of Barr. Nyesom Wike as sole governorship candidate by a purported coalition of 58 political parties; such endorsement is watery and belated.” Pastor Zebulon who is the governorship candidate of Advance Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA) called on Governor  Nyesom Wike and the PDP to be very careful “in the systematic blackmail they are launching on the electoral umpire – INEC.” He said that it is very worrisome that the PDP will be allegedly casting aspersions on the integrity of INEC saying that it is  on record that the PDP has made several attempts to compromise INEC . He said “We are using this opportunity to call on INEC to maintain its neutrality in the forthcoming Governorship and State Assembly Elections in Rivers state. “We commend the Nigerian Army and the GOC 6 Division , Major General Jamil Sarham for coming to the rescue of defenceless Rivers citizens especially those in Abonnema who were held hostage by hoodlums and thugs. “Consequently, we call on Rivers people to support and vote their preferred governorship candidate who can work in harmony with the Federal Government to bring the desired dividends that will make our beloved state a safe haven as ‘The treasure base of the Nation.’” He called  on Rivers people not to allow their children and wards  to be used as agents of violence before and after the Governorship and State House of Assembly Elections in the state. It will be recalled that another group of governorship candidates led by Samuel Ihunwo had last Thursday endorsed Governor Wike as the sole governorship candidate in the election. 2019: Wike plans for a comeback to Rivers’ Brick House Rivers 2015:  Wike’s gale of endorsements, bags of setbacks Wike is next Rivers governor – Patience Jonathan