The chairman, National Peace Committee and former military head of state, Abdulsalami Abubakar, in this interview with Daily Trust on Sunday, spoke on the activities of his committee in ensuring peace during elections. He specifically spoke on the conduct of presidential and National Assembly elections, whether the peace accord was substantially complied with by the major actors in the race, as well as an insight into the meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar recently, among other issues. What is your assessment of the presidential and National Assembly elections? The elections were peaceful, although there were pockets of violence in some few places. Those disturbances were quite isolated, but the deaths were unfortunate. The international and domestic observers who monitored the exercise also gave the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) a pass mark. And I think that is a good thing. However, it is unfortunate that the elections had to be unavoidably postponed in the first place over logistic issues because the INEC had enough time and even resources to prepare. But we thank God that the elections were conducted on the rescheduled date. The actors in the presidential election, especially the two main contenders, President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, signed a peace accord initiated by your committee; do you think the agreement was adhered to? Well, they have tried, to some extent. I think the accord has played a significant role in the peace we enjoyed during the electioneering campaign and the election proper. Of course, there were violence in some places, but we thank God that the situation did not degenerate and also not widespread. By and large, I would say the actors abided by the agreement because all the people who signed that agreement, in their utterances, cautioned their supporters on the need to ensure peace and not take laws into their hands. Your committee interfaced with Buhari and Atiku after the elections; what really happened at the meeting? You might have followed the development through the media. There were rumours that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may call out its supporters in demonstration, which may lead to breakdown of law and order. When we raised the matter with them, they denied it and said they did not know where the speculation was coming from. They raised some issues, such as the alleged arrest of their members, freezing of their accounts, among other allegations against the government. We tried to see how we could assuage the situation. Naturally, we had to meet the government side with the observations that were raised and they gave their own positions on the issues raised. But Atiku’s camp is in court; is it that your committee couldn’t reach a middle ground on the matter? Well, Atiku and his group went to court because they did not agree with the outcome of the election given by the INEC. They complained that materials were not supplied to some of the areas they had comparative advantage over the ruling party, as well as allegations of malpractices. Would you say that Atiku and his party breached the peace accord by going to court? No, we can’t say he has breached the agreement because as the Hausa adage says, you can’t beat someone and disallow him from crying. This means that you can’t organise something involving many people and refuse to give room for observation and criticism along the line. In the first place, if the PDP felt they were cheated or shortchanged, they have the right to go to court. Although it is not in our interest to see any party going to court, if that will solve the problem arising from the issues in contention instead of crisis, you have to give the aggrieved the benefit of doubt. Did the peace accord initiated by your committee also involve governorship candidates across the states? Actually, some non-governmental and civil society organisations requested to join hands with us to initiate the peace accord at the state level, which we approved and blessed. For instance, in Kano, the first pact was signed before the presidential election for peaceful campaigns. Again, last Wednesday, our delegation was there to witness the signing of agreement for governorship candidates. They did so in some other states. So far, the initiative succeeded in dousing tension during electioneering campaigns in states. What is your appeal to politicians and Nigerians in general on the conduct of elections? As always, we are appealing to them to give peace a chance. When there are disturbances, the casualties are always the poor masses and not the rich and those in government. Violence hardly gets to people in government, but the poor masses always pay for the actions and activities of politicians. So we appeal to politicians to avoid utterances and actions that could lead to the breach of peace. We also call on the youth to avoid being used as tools to cause mayhem and chaos. Atiku signs 2019 peace deal, asks Buhari to sign electoral bill Anambra elections: Abdulsalami, Obi of Onitsha sue for peace Abdulsalami, Kukah meet Atiku over polls outcome