A nude video alleged to be of Nasarawa State’s deputy speaker and senator-elect, Godiya Akwashiki (APC, Nasarawa North), has gone viral. The first of five images shows the lawmaker in a 16-second clip being molested after he was stripped naked. The second shows him seated naked in a car, with only a torn singlet on. The third picture shows him seated on a floor, also naked. Another shows him in a hospital bed, with two people by his side. In the video, the lawmaker was seen hit several times by two people, while he repeatedly said “sorry”. It was alleged that the lawmaker was arrested with a married woman in a hotel in Maitama, Abuja, but the woman was not shown in the video or in the still pictures. The spokesman of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command, Anjuguri Manzah, confirmed that the case was reported, but said the lawmaker was not in police custody. “We are investigating the matter,” he said. The state government was said to have convened an emergency meeting Saturday over the video. Efforts to get Akwashiki’s reaction were unsuccessful as his mobile telephone line was switched off when our correspondent called him. The state chairman of the APC, Philip Tatari Shekwo, in a statement yesterday, said the party expressed its deepest concern on the video clip. He said the party condemned the “barbaric act”, adding that “It is unfortunate that this obnoxious act could be meted on a public figure of this high status, no matter the alleged offence.” He said the party had set machinery in motion to investigate the incident in order to establish the facts and truth of the matter. According to him, “anyone found to be involved in this unfortunate incident and is a member of the APC, will be sanctioned in accordance with the party’s constitution, just as the party will also allow the laws of the land to take its due course. “We enjoin all those that could be affected by this incident to exercise patience while the investigation is in progress.” Nasarawa Senator-Elect stripped, beaten in viral sex scandal video  allegation Mother of 3 accuses Ekiti lawmaker of sexual harassment Plot against Al-Makura thickens as Nasarawa lawmakers complete probe