Gombe State Governor-elect Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of the All Progressives Congress (APC) emerged victorious after a keenly contested election that saw him defeat Senator Usman Bayero Nafada of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Inuwa entered the political arena in 2003 when former Governor Muhammad Danjuma Goje appointed him as commissioner of finance, an office he occupied for seven years. However, despite not holding any public office in the past apart from the commissionership, the governor-elect could be said to be fully prepared for the task ahead, having contested for the seat for a record three times. But political pundits are of the view that the first challenge to be faced by Inuwa Yahaya is selecting members of his cabinet. All the prominent politicians from the state are in the APC and have played a vital role to ensure Inuwa’s victory. Even though some of them are ‘too big’ to be appointed as commissioners, they will likely endorse their cronies to be appointed into the cabinet. Also, the leader of the party in the state, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje will likely have a say on who is appointed into what position. Sources close to the governor-elect say over 150 people have so far shown interest to be appointed as commissioners and the number keeps increasing by the day. Political observers say since it is almost impossible to satisfy all the people that worked for his victory, how he selects his cabinet will make or mar his administration. Also, satisfying the populace will be the next herculean task as people have great expectation that the new governor within the shortest time will correct the wrong policies of Dankwambo’s eight-year rule. Also, people look up to Inuwa to end the perennial water scarcity, epileptic power supply, dilapidated health sector and to revamp the decaying public schools. They also expect him to provide access roads to remote areas in the metropolis and revitalise roads and other social amenities in the rural areas, close gaps on the deficit of infrastructure and complete the numerous ongoing and abandoned projects. Inuwa will also inherit backlog of unpaid gratuities owed pensioners that retired over seven years ago. There is also huge foreign and domestic debt to the tune of over N63 billion. Whereas projects and services require several billions of naira to execute, the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state fluctuates around N650m monthly with N3.2bn as the state’s monthly allocation from the FAAC. Apart from the financial crisis and economic instability, Governor-elect Inuwa Yahaya will inherit the restive Kalare thugs that have been a problem in the state for over 16 years. There is also the high number of unemployed youth and out-of-school children which contribute to petty crimes, drug peddling, rape and armed robbery. The perennial communal clash between the Tangale speaking people of Billiri, Shongom and Kaltungo LGAs of the state which has lasted for almost 30 years, is another area of concern. Lives and properties worth millions of naira were lost over the years and people would expect the new governor to end the bloodshed. Another insecurity issue is that of herdsmen who invade farm lands during harvest to destroy crops, sometimes resulting in farmers/herdsmen clashes. Speaking to newsmen shortly after he was declared as the winner of the March 9 gubernatorial election, Inuwa Yahaya said he would review programmes and projects of the Dankwambo administration before building on them. 2 APC lawmakers absent as Gombe Governor-elect, others receive Certificates of Return Brief biography of Gombe State Governor-Elect APC governorship candidates face biggest battles in opposition states