The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibadan zonal office has arrested one Ayodele Saheed Olaniyi, for defrauding unsuspecting investors in a phoney N343,880,000 investment scam. Acting EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade, in a statement on Thursday said the arrest followed a petition to the EFCC in February, which was investigated by commission’s operatives. He said the petition had alleged that Olaniyi duped 89 persons collecting money from them at various times amounting to N343,880,000. Orilade said, “Olaniyi was said to have persuaded his victims into investing in a network structure called “Beerbanc Traders’ Network”, in which the participants would pool resources together to establish a beer retailing business.” The EFCC said the proceeds were expected to be shared every month among the investors and the purported coordinating company. “But rather than bring succour, Olaniyi accentuated their frustration as they neither received a dime as profit on their investment since October 2018 nor did they get their invested money back,” Orilade said. He said investigations into the petition revealed that the suspect was operating eight different accounts through which he enlisted 114 people into the phoney scheme. “It was also established that a sum of N396.5 million found in the accounts was never invested in any business. “It was also established that the company under which Olaniyi was operating the business was not registered with the Central Bank of Nigeria as a financial institution. “After taking his statement and conducting a search on his house and business address at Oluyole, Ibadan, he was granted administrative bail; he was, however, unable to meet the terms. “However, having realized that it was game up and that there was the likelihood of him facing the consequence of his actions, Olaniyi tried playing a smart one on the Commission, as he feigned illness. He claimed to be suffering from Hepatitis B in a bid to secure his release on health ground, the EFCC said. However, a medical laboratory test conducted on him established that he was not infected as he claimed. He will soon be charged to court, the EFCC statement said. Cybercrime: EFCC arrests 24 undergraduates, 12 others EFCC arrests 24 undergraduates, 12 others over cyber crime EFCC nabs undergraduate over 90 thousand dollars romance scam, murder