The Nasarawa State command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) on Monday evening rescued the state’s Chief Judge, Justice Suleiman Umar Dikko, after he was locked-up for hours in his office at the State High Court Complex by the striking members of Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN). The state’s Commissioner of Police who was represented by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, Monday Ordiah, while escorting the Chief Judge away from the court premises, said the Police Commissioner would intervene between JUSUN and the state government. JUSUN Chairman in Nasarawa State, Comrade Jimoh Musa said, “JUSUN in collaboration with its national body and chapters from eighteen states of the federation joined the strike action.” The union alleged that the state’s Chief Judge was reportedly making illegal deductions of staff yearly emoluments and five year areas. “Our salary has been paid by the state government, but the Chief Judge has refused to pay us for four months now, claiming “No work, no pay”,” Musa said. JUSUN had early Monday morning locked up the state’s Chief Judge in his office saying they will continue blocking the State High Court Complex until when their demands are met. He said they have been on strike since November 13, 2018. However, the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Dr Abdulkareem Kana, told Daily Trust that, “Nasarawa State Government does not owe judiciary workers or staff any salary, allowance, wage emoluments or entitlements of any kind. “Our investigation also reveals that their allegation against the Chief Judge of Nasarawa State is false, untrue and unfounded. “There is also a court order against JUSUN from carrying out such lockouts, and harassment of judges, staff and public in and around the court premises. “Today, they are in violation of the court order and carried out criminal acts in addition to what they committed on the 13th November 2018 when they physically assaulted the Chief Judge of Nasarawa State while seating in his court. “I attempted to speak on phone with the National President of JUSUN to know the reasons behind their action; his reaction was rude and arrogant. “Only JUSUN know what they are looking for, but it is not clear. So far, the Government of Nasarawa State while respecting the principle of separation of powers has allowed the law to take its course”. Judicial staff who assaulted Nasarawa Chief Judge to be prosecuted JUST IN: JUSUN locks up Nasarawa Chief Judge in his office Judiciary in 16 states still paralysed