A Lagos High Court in Igbosere yesterday adjourned till April 3, 2019 the trial of a Danish national, Peter Schau Nielsen, who allegedly killed his wife and daughter, following the state government’s inability to present its final witness. The Lagos State Deputy Director of Prosecution, Dr Jide Martins, told Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Ighile that the witness, Dr Somairi, was not available. Nielsen, 53, is standing trial following the death of his Nigerian singer wife, Zainab Nielsen, and their three and a half-year-old daughter, Petra. The accused person was charged with the killings last June 13 on two counts of murder. Five people were said to be in the apartment on the night of the incident: Nielsen, Zainab and Petra. Two Zainab’s step-sisters, Gift and Favour Madaki, were also said to be there. The government accused Nielsen of beating and smothering Zainab and Petra to death at about 3.45am at their No. 4, Flat 17, Bella Vista Tower residence, Banana Island, Ikoyi. Nielsen denied the charges. At the resumed hearing of the case yesterday when Dr Martins explained Dr Somairi’s absence, he said it was discovered last Friday during a pre-trial meeting with the witness that there were other essential pieces of information required by the prosecution that were not before the court. Dr Martins said, “We hope that by Wednesday, the information would be ready and we would serve same on the court and the defence. Our application is for the court to vacate Tuesday (today) and Friday. He is a vital witness whose testimony will help the court. We are still coming back on Monday.” Justice Okikiolu-Ighile was not pleased and responded, “Learned Deputy Director, today is wasted, tomorrow is wasted, Friday is wasted. You have disorganised my list.” The defence counsel, Olasupo Shasore, also expressed displeasure at the development. The former Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, suggested it was about time courts began awarding costs against the state when it foisted unplanned adjournments on parties, if the laws can be so amended. “We are not in a position to oppose the state’s application. But with an internally generated revenue of over N30 billion a month, the state is healthy enough to start paying costs,” Shasore told the judge. After listening to the submissions of both parties, Justice Okikiolu-Ighile adjourned till April 3, 2019 for continuation of  trial. At the last hearing on February 20, 2019, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, Gafaru Oderinde, had told the court that Nielsen was billed to travel abroad six days after the incident occurred. Oderinde said the defendant had already bought a flight ticket and was billed to travel abroad on April 11, 2018. When, during cross examination, Shasore enquired if Oderinde investigated any other person apart from Nielsen, he replied no.  Lagos State commences trial of Danish national over murder of wife, daughter Kudirat’s murder: Appeal Court frees Al-Mustapha Lessons from Al-Mustapha’s case