Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike, has raised alarm over alleged plot by security agencies and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to kidnap the INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the state as a ploy for the postponement of the Governorship and State Assembly elections in the state. He said the State Government has also intercepted credible intelligence that the APC also plans to use the security agencies to generate mass violence to disrupt the  distribution of election materials on March 9, 2019 so as  to compel INEC  to postpone the Governorship and State Assembly elections in the state. Wike disclosed this during a town hall meeting for Rivers West Senatorial District on Tuesday at Ahoada. He decried the situation where the APC and security agencies are working illegally to postpone the elections on the basis of contrived violence. “They are struggling to ensure that the Governorship and State Assembly elections don’t hold in Rivers State. “The APC is planning with security agencies to kidnap the Rivers State Independent National Electoral Commission REC. “They will send people wearing army uniforms to kidnap the Resident Electoral Commissioner so that INEC will be forced to postpone the elections. “That is their latest strategy and so I have to let the world hear that if anything happens, they should hold the APC and security services responsible. “These people are not kidnappers; they are security agents organised by security agencies working for APC to see that the Governorship and State Assembly elections don’t  hold in Rivers state. “These security agencies have been organised to ensure that the elections are postponed.  This ugly plan has failed. I am calling on Nigerians to take note of this undemocratic plot. “We have also gathered that the APC and security agencies plan to disrupt the distribution of electoral materials and compel INEC to postpone the Governorship and State Assembly elections,” he said. He wondered why some politicians are keen on unleashing violence on Rivers people. The governor urged the people of Rivers West Senatorial District to be vigilant all through the Governorship and State Assembly elections for the purpose of ensuring that the elections hold in line with the extant laws. APC spokesman in Rivers state, Chris Finebone said the party has no penchant for violence in the state. Wike threat to Rivers re-run polls – APC We'll resist plot to postpone Rivers elections, says Wike Re-run elections: Rivers political warlords return to trenches