The Headquarters of Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) has said the leadership of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) is in disarray after sustained air and land operation of ongoing operation Yancin Tafki. A statement from the spokesman of the MNJTF, Colonel Timothy Antigha in N’Djamena, Chad on Tuesday said, “information from captured and defected Boko Haram fighters indicates that the leadership of Boko Haram terrorist network has been overwhelmed and are currently in disarray.” He said, “The former fighters who are receiving humane attention further divulged that morale and fighting spirit of Boko Haram fighters is very low as a result of growing insecurity and the inability to replenish stranded fighters in the islands with food, medicine and ammunition.” He recalled that an integral part of Operation Yancin Tafki has been a series of well-coordinated day and night Human Intelligence as well as Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions. He said these are conducted by the Air Forces of the Lake Chad Basin countries; Chad, Cameroon, Niger and Nigeria, leading to successful and devastating air interdictions. He said the air attacks have destroyed Boko Haram logistic facilities and fighters in Tumbum Gini, Abadam, Arege, Tumbun Rego and Dagaya environs between 7th and 11th March 2019. He noted that in the last four weeks of the Operation, about 70 Boko Haram vehicles, mostly Gun Trucks and facilities such as fuel dumps, weapons and ammunition have been destroyed. He said since the commencement of the Operation several terrorists have surrendered while others are battle-weary and have indicated interest to surrender. He said the morale of the terror fighters is at its lowest, while desperation has also set in, leading to intrigues and in-fighting. Atigha said, “reliable sources say internal crisis led to change of Boko Haram leadership on 3 March 2019;  it could be recalled that the  Islamic State West Africa Province announced the sack of the former Boko Haram Chief, Abu Mus’ab Al-Barnawi and the appointment of Abu Abdullahi Ibn Umar Al-Barnawi.” He said the frequent execution of Boko Haram Commanders and fighters which have been observed in the past few months as well as the recent replacement of its leadership are clear indications of the effectiveness of ongoing Operation Yacin Tafki. He said the MNJTF would sustain its current operations until Boko Haram capitulates and its leadership brought to justice. Multinational troops kill 40 Boko Haram fighters Multinational Force kills 40 Boko Haram fighters How Multinational  Joint Task Force operates,  by Commander