The incumbent chairmen of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abaji and Gwagwalada area councils have won elections for their second term. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi Adamu, winner of the chairmanship election in AMAC. The area council returning officer, Prof Muhammad Umaru Ndagi of Department of Linguistics, University of Abuja, said Adamu won after he polled a total vote of 53,538 to defeat his main opponent, Princess Vivian Anazodo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 35, 753 votes. “Abdullahi Adamu, having satisfied the requirement of the law and scored the highest number of votes is hereby declared the winner and is returned elected,” Prof Ndagi said. He said results from five polling units were cancelled due to over voting, adding that 7,464 registered voters were affected at the cancelled polling units. Abdullahi Adamu, who is the incumbent chairman, said he was humbled by the result. “The process was very transparent. The election took place with all sense of civility; everybody can testify to the fact that this election was won around town. “The fact that we emerged victoriously does not suggest that we are above everybody. I think we should ask those who lost to come on board and join us so that we can pilot the affairs of the area council and move the council to greater heights. The council belongs to all of us,” he said. Meanwhile, the PDP collation agent, Dr Harvest Ighewho, said the election was marred with irregularities, “in so many wards there were over voting, for instance, the result in Jiwa ward with over 9, 000 votes. With the voters’ apathy, we wonder how a candidate will get so many votes in a particular ward.” He said the election should be cancelled due to irregularities and violence. “These irregularities are enough to cancel the election. Even those who conducted the election said that is why they cancelled results in some centres. We understand there is a collaboration to defraud Nigerians especially residents of FCT. We know everything that was done here was a fraud and it is not acceptable to the PDP,” he said. The incumbent chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya of the APC was also declared winner of the area council election. Ajiya won with a margin of 2,973 votes. The area council returning officer, Prof Simon Malankwe, who announced the result, said the incumbent won after he polled a total of 13,442 votes to defeat his opponent, Alhaji Mohammed Inuwa Ashafa  of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 10, 473 votes. Similarly, the incumbent chairman of Gwagwalada area council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, has been declared winner of the council election by the INEC in the area. The INEC returning officer, Prof. Sani  Saka, who declared the result said Adamu Mustapha of the APC scored 21,960 to defeat his opponent Alhaji Abubakar Jibrin Giri of the SDP who got 14, 105 votes. FCT chairmanship polls: APC wins AMAC ...AMAC election declared inconclusive too PDP’s Aduda emerges winner of FCT senatorial election