National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday, led members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and other protesters to the INEC headquarters in Abuja. Secondus alleged that the ruling APC and some “compromised” staff of INEC were working assiduously to rig Saturday’s elections in PDP controlled states of Akwa Ibom, Kwara, Rivers, Sokoto and Delta. Addressing INEC officials on why the party took the protest to the doorstep of the electoral umpire, Secondus said by allegedly conniving with the APC to thwart the will of Nigerians, INEC was “piling gunpowder which when it explodes may leave the country in ruins.” He cautioned INEC officials against tolerating acts that would cause trouble in the country, adding that INEC’s role in the presidential and National Assembly elections held on February 23, fell short of the required standards and could not stand any scrutiny. “The mood in the country shows clearly that you, INEC, declared the wrong person winner in the presidential election and I urge you to watch your action because history is recording all you do for posterity. “The APC is deploying military operatives to help some of your black legs manipulate Saturday’s elections in some states particularly Kaduna, Delta, Sokoto, Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Kwara; but Nigerians in those states have mobilized to defend their votes,” Secondus said. The PDP national chairman submitted a letter of protest to the commission, expressing the party’s grievances especially as it related to the February 23 polls. Three INEC National Commissioners led by Mrs. May Agbamuche, received the PDP leaders and assured that the commission would investigate the party’s complaints. Those in her company included Malam Mohammed Haruna and Prof. Antonia Simbine. “On behalf of INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and the entire INEC staff, I want to thank you for the civilized way you have approached us and that is the way it should be,” Mrs. Agbamuche said. “I want to say that INEC, we are here to do a professional job, but don’t forget that INEC cannot do the work alone. “But first and foremost, INEC has received your complaint. We are going to look at it critically, where we need to change, we with change. This country belongs to all of us and we must protect it with all our might. I believe that on Saturday the elections will go on very well but our mantra in this election is that we want peace in our country,” she said. “I supervised Rivers and Bayelsa states so I know what it means to invest in that area, and the people of Rivers and Akwa-Ibom know what they want. Because this election is also important, we intend to make it free and fair election. All we ask is that for your own sake too, your mantra should be peace.” The protesters chanted songs, saying, “Yakubu declare Atiku winner of presidential election,” among others. PDP protesters accuse APC, INEC of conniving to rig polls We'll resist plot to postpone Rivers elections, says Wike INEC designing special card reader, result sheets for APC, Secondus tells ECOWAS