A member of Presidential Campaign Council and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Broom platform, Dr Tom Ohikere, has faulted the “statistical impossibility” claim of the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar. Ohikere, who spoke with journalists on Saturday in Abuja, said the general low voters turnout was due to the do-or-die disposition of Atiku and his people in the PDP. He said Atiku and his team did not approach the election with the spirit of sportsmanship but rather, with the intention to bulldoze their way through as was their only understanding of politics. He said: “We are a democracy, we know there are rules to the game. The PDP and Atiku did not conduct themselves in a civilized way even after the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to a free and fair election. It was this realization that made the president to order the security agencies to deal brutally with ballot box snatchers. “The disposition of the opposition had created a sense of apprehension among many voters especially in the southeast and south south. But the low voters turnout cannot be limited to these areas. If you look at the trend, Kano which is PMB and APC stronghold also recorded a fall in average turnout from its 2015 number. The voter turnout in Kano state which in 2015 was about 2.2 million, in the last election was just about 1.9 million. “So, the low voters turnout is distributed across the country. But it was minimized in the north because of the northern attitude to electoral participation. Even in 2015 when Boko Haram was ravaging the country, they still showed up in significant numbers. “So, Atiku Abubakar is just caught up in his web of disinformation. We know that most local and international observers have been acknowledging the fairness of the exercise. Even the government of the United States of America, the custodian of global human rights and sustainable democracy, has endorsed the overall outcome of the polls and even congratulated the president on his re-election.” Atiku's emergence has reduced our task – APC group 2019 campaigns: Story behind ‘mammoth’ crowds Nigeria decides today