A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the FCT, Alhaji Haruna Mohammed Pai,  has said the party was fully prepared to slug it out with the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Saturday, March 23, chairmanship/councillorship re-run elections in the area. Mohammed, who was the chairmanship aspirant that lost out to the chairmanship candidate of the PDP, Ibrahim Daniel, during the party’s primary last December, said Saturday that nothing will stop PDP from winning the re-run polls. He said the masses of Kwali area council had already taken the decision to vote the chairmanship candidate of the PDP,  which he added prompted voters across the 10 wards to vote massively during the March, 9 2019 election. “But it was unfortunate that as PDP was almost on the verge of heading to victory, INEC suddenly declared the elections inconclusive, after they said there was violence in a particular polling unit.  We are unperturbed as PDP shall emerge victorious God willing,” he said. He said the party’s chairmanship candidate was a peace maker and trusted by people of Kwali area council during his first tenure in 2013, adding that the candidate had always enjoyed the support of the elite, traditional rulers and youth in the area. He, however, berated INEC for declaring elections inconclusive and claimed that PDP was winning across the three area councils as well as other states. He said such move was not in the best interest of the country’s democracy. “Just look at states where PDP is winning, INEC has declared elections in such states inconclusive which is not working towards peace and tranquillity in this country,” he said. He therefore called on supporters of the chairmanship candidate especially in the area where the re-run will hold on Saturday to come out en masse to vote, and urged the youth to be calm and support security agents to ensure a hitch free elections in the area. ‘FCT polls: I’ll seek legal redress after studying results’ Council polls: How ruling parties ‘edged’ oppositions in states FCT polls: Intrigues as opposition candidates plot to unseat incumbent chairmen