The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) will today open bids for broadcast firms it hopes to contract to produce jingles that will publicize the regulation on Meter Asset Providers (MAPs), about 12 months after its approval. NERC initiated the MAP Regulation in 2017, approved it in March 2018 while it came into effect on April 3. A report from NERC says over four million Nigerians are still without meters. Thus, the MAP is meant to scale up the rate of metering by the 11 electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) to reduce estimated billings and guarantee revenue generation in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). Under it, the MAP firms will buy meters and install for consumers while the DisCo recovers the cost in 10 years from the electricity tariff, or customers could opt for outright purchase of the devices. However, 12 months since then, the MAP regulation is yet to materialise. NERC had shifted the procurement of the asset providers by DisCos at least twice in 2018. So far, the commission has granted ‘No Objection’ permit to about 120 potential MAP firms that could be engaged by any of the DisCos to provide meters for their consumers. The project, which it said was for jingles for radio and television, will be explaining the objectives and content of the MAP Regulation to create awareness and also to ensure that electricity consumers and industry operators take advantage of it. In a procurement notice issued late February 2019, NERC said: “Therefore, there is the need for the commission to produce jingles and broadcast of same for the purpose of creating awareness about the regulation among critical stakeholders in NESI.” It stated also that all the submitted bids would be opened on Thursday by the procurement team at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja. As at December 2018, majority of the DisCos had not completed their procurement of MAP to submit to NERC for approval. NERC bars DisCos from stakes in new meter companies MAP: Why NERC presses DisCos on customers’ metering, 8 months after rule NERC delays new meter providers by 3 months