· Says campaign tour shows he’s fit  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said that his second term of four years, which begins from May 29, this year, will be tough. He spoke when members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), paid him a congratulatory visit at the State House, Abuja. The meeting was attended by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, Head of Service of the Federation, Winifred Oyo-Ita, National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno and over 20 ministers. Buhari said: “My last lap of four years, I think it is going to be tough because people are forgetful. That was why wherever I went, I reminded them of the campaign promise of our party, particularly security, as I kept on saying that you have to secure the country well and institutions. If you don’t secure the country, you can’t achieve anything no matter how many programmes you put in place. “Secondly, on the economy, unemployment is a problem of this country as a whole. More than 60 per cent of the youths, they need to be kept busy. I realised that God heard our prayers. It had been two good rainy seasons and we had the foresight to get the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Central Bank [of Nigeria] to try and give soft loans to farmers so that everybody that is educated and looking for white collar jobs and cannot get it, can go back to the land. We are lucky the rainy season had been good,” he said. Buhari said the tour of the 36 states and FCT during campaigns has shown that he was fit to continue to pilot the affairs of the country for another four years. “During the campaigns, I tried to visit the 36 states and Abuja, firstly, to prove to the other side that I’m fit. I tried to cover two states per day and secondly, not to make anybody feel that any state had been left out,” he said. Breaking: My second term would be tough - Buhari Our campaign tour proves my fitness to lead Nigeria – Buhari Why Tinubu will be fully in charge of my campaigns — Buhari