The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has highlighted some of the reasons that got President Muhammadu Buhari reelected in the February 23 presidential elections. He said the president’s victory is a confirmation of the fact that ordinary Nigerians appreciate the pro-people policies of the present administration which the government in the past four years is doing more with fewer resources. Mohammed who made the remarks in Abuja yesterday when he received the management of his ministry, who came to congratulate him on the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at last week’s Presidential and National Assembly elections said the presidential election symbolizes the triumph of the ordinary Nigerians over the elite. He said the president presides over a government that has done what no government in the history of Nigeria has done before adding that he was confident of the president’s reelection. “Last weekend’s election is a direct contest between ordinary Nigerians and the elite, most of whom are rent seekers. Of course, the ordinary Nigerians have won,” he said. “Overall, this government is doing more with less and is restoring decency and integrity to governance. Like the New York Times said, the re-election of President Buhari is a referendum on honesty. There is no better way to put it,” he stated. While reeling out the policies that endeared President Buhari to the ordinary Nigerians, the Minister said under the Social Investment Programme, the government feeds 9.3 million school children every day and some 500,000 unemployed graduates have been employed under N-Power, in addition to some 300,000 families who are benefitting from the Conditional Cash Transfer. He said in a deliberate effort to boost the Small and Medium Enterprises to contribute significantly to the nation’s economy, the Buhari Administration gives out interest-free loans of between N10,000 and N100,000 under the TraderMoni and the MarketMoni Schemes to small business owners.  Buhari returns to wild jubilations Buhari’s certificate saga, a distraction – Lai Mohammed Jonathan and Buhari: Mismanaging the fragile peace