The National Chapter of Retired Army, Navy and Air force Officers Association (RANAO) has disowned its Kano State chapter over report decrying the implementation of a new pension structure, published in Daily Trust newspaper. Daily Trust on 1st March 2019 reported that the Kano Chapter of RANAO appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to look into the discrepancies surrounding the implementation of revised gross consolidated armed forces pension scale as approved in 2017, to ensure that retired officers are paid their dues seamlessly. The Publicity Secretary of the Association in Kano, Captain Yusuf Abdulmalik (rtd) who spoke with our correspondent said what members of the association received in January as their monthly pension was far below the approved structure. However, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, Colonel Victor Ndulue (rtd), the Publicity and Liaison Secretary of RANAO, dissociated the organization from the statements credited to Captain Yusuf Abdulmalik (rtd). He said, “The Military Pensions Board had acted transparently and properly in accordance with the Financial Manual of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and made assiduous efforts to carry every organization of veterans along in matters regarding military pensions.” He noted that, “Since RANAO is appropriately structured with a relevant organ responsible for making such a press release, the officer is not suitably qualified to talk on behalf of RANAO.” He added that, “the officer’s statements are at best personal and uninformed and at worst inconsequential and unfortunate. The general public is therefore requested to disregard the officer’s comments in its entirety.” When contacted over the issue, the spokesman of the Military Pensions Board, Flight Lieutenant Obasi Okoroafor said the Board has commenced the payment of the  newly approved Revised Gross consolidated Armed Forces Salary Structure (CONAFSS) for pension purposes by the Federal Government. He explained that, “The implementation took effect on January 2019 for payment of Pensions, gratuity to retirees and death benefits to next of kin of deceased personnel.” He said “Before commencement of the payment, leaders of various veterans bodies where properly enlightened on the process.” “Also after the January payment, due to system migration to the new platform, some individuals where short paid and upon noticing that, a stakeholders meeting was called by the board Chairman Major General Ahmadu Adamu and explanation was given on the issue,” he added. Okoroafor said, “The good news is that during the payment of February pension, the discrepancy was corrected and there arrears of January payment was also paid.” He said the Board has commenced the payment of gratuity arrears based on the new scale and has also paid all death benefits arrears as regards to the new scale. He added that all the process and procedures for this implementation has been communicated to retirees and next of kin of deceased personnel through various means. Ex-militarymen cry out over non-payment of areas RANAO mourns late AVM Mukhtar Military pensioners decry underpayment as new pension scale takes off