The Nigerian Army (NA) yesterday announced redeployments and new appointments for some senior officers. A statement on Sunday from Army spokesman Colonel Sagir Musa said the Army had on March 16, 2019, released the postings and appointments. He said those affected include Major General HO Otiki who has been posted to 8 Division as General Officer Commanding. He said Major General SO Olabanji the erstwhile General Officer Commanding 8 Division has been posted to Infantry Corps Centre and appointed as Commander Infantry Corps. Brigadier General HI Bature from 34 Brigade to Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command as Director Examinations, while Brigadier General TO Olowomeye from Headquarters 33 Brigade to Army Headquarters Department of Civil-Military Affairs as Director Civil Military Affairs. Similarly, Brigadier General BA Mohammed from 23 Brigade to Martin Luther Agwai International Peace Keeping Centre and appointed Deputy Commandant, Brigadier General UM Bello from Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command to 63 Brigade and appointed Commander. Brigadier General MT Durowaiye was deployed from Directorate of Army Transformation and Innovation to 33 Brigade and appointed Commander. Brigadier General SB Kumapayi deployed from Army Headquarters Department of Civil-Military Affairs to Headquarters 14 Brigade as Commander and Brigadier General NM Jega from Headquarters 2 Brigade to 9 Brigade and appointed Commander. Brigadier General KO Aligbe redeployed from 16 Brigade to Defence Headquarters as Director Liaison and Brigadier General AK Ibrahim from 14 Brigade to Army Headquarters Department of Administration (Army) and appointed Deputy Director Veteran Affairs Department Retired Officers’ Cell and Brigadier General GTO Ajetunmobi from Headquarters Command Army Records to 31 Brigade as Commander. Brigadier General OG Onubogu redeployed from Army Headquarters Department of Army Policy and Plans to Headquarters 16 Brigade and appointed Commander. Brigadier General OM Bello from Nigerian Army Resource Center to Headquarters 6 Brigade and appointed Chief of Staff, while Brigadier General ZL Abubakar from National Defence College to 32 Brigade and appointed Commander. Also, Brigadier General AA Orukotan deployed from Nigerian Army Resource Center to Headquarters Command Army Records and appointed Chief of Staff among others, the Army statement said. Army approves new postings, appointments of senior officers Army redeploys senior officers Army approves new postings, appointments of senior officers