Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Loans, Aids and Debt Management, Ahmed Safana (APC, Katsina), has called on the federal government to save Katsina State from the menace of armed bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers. Safana, who made the plea via a press statement in Abuja yesterday, lamented that his Safana/Batsari/Dansuma Federal Constituency has been taken over by armed bandits, who constantly harass and kidnap the people for ransom. According to the lawmaker, just two days ago, five persons were killed at Kasai village in Batsari LGA, in addition to recurring incidences of killings and kidnappings in the area. “I am disturbed that people are displaced from their homeland without any meaningful intervention from the appropriate authorities. “Let me mention that the people of Alhazawa village in Safana LGA have been displaced. So, my constituents are in a precarious situation to the extent that I find it difficult to visit them when the need arises. “We appeal to the government to deploy more security personnel to the affected areas, in order to put an end to the nefarious activities of these criminal elements, and safeguard lives and property,” he said. The lawmaker recalled that he had, on two different occasions in 2015 and 2018, sponsored motions in the  House of Representatives, on the need for the federal government to intervene against the incessant loss of lives in his constituency. He further recalled that the mother-in-law to Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State was kidnapped shortly before the general elections. He lamented that the bandits, who are domiciled in Daji Rugu forest, stretching from Katsina through Zamfara  to Birnin-Gwari in Kaduna State, have committed various atrocities, and thus undermined economic activities in the area. He noted that his constituents and other  Katsina peoples, who are predominantly farmers and traders, could no longer go to their farms or market places, for fear of being kidnapped or killed. Kidnapping in Katsina spreads to metropolis Kidnapping goes ‘viral’ in Katsina Suspected kidnapper nabbed in Katsina