The Centre for Information Technology and Development, CITAD has called for the arrest and investigation of the Chairman, Kano state chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas over alleged inciting remarks to his party supporters ahead of the state’s supplementary governorship election. The Curbing Dangerous and Hate Speech Project Coordinator, CITAD, Malam Hamza Ibrahim made the call on Thursday in a phone conversation with Daily Trust shortly after he had issued a statement drawing attention of relevant agencies to the spate of dangerous speeches preceding the re-run election. It could be recalled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday declared the state governorship election inconclusive, and thus scheduled a new date for the re-run in 172 poling units across the 44 local government areas of the state. Ibrahim emphasized the need for the security agencies across the country to be pragmatic in their approach to curbing dangerous and hate speeches so as to serve as deterrent to others. The centre in a statement signed by Malam Ibrahim identified as dangerous for peace of the state the video trending on social media, depicting the party chieftain encouraging team of supporters to ensure the party emerges victories in the re-run at all cost. Ibrahim described Abbas’ remarks as disturbing and dangerous for peace of the state as well as the country’s democracy. “As an organization that works in the area of peace building, the Center for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) is greatly concerned with this bad development. Very disturbing in this respect is the viral 58 seconds video clip of Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Abdullahi Abbas addressing youth in a clear inciting and dangerous manner on the coming election. “The remarks constitute serious danger to the election and period beyond as they licensed the listening youth to beat up anybody they so wish because soldiers and police will do nothing to them. “The second danger is the reiteration of Hon. Abbas’ earlier statement that the election will be won by them either in chaos or conflict. We regrettably condemn these remarks. They are highly disturbing amidst a fragile situation of election cancellation and plan for rerun by the national electoral body. “Elections come and go, therefore, no citizen or body no matter how highly placed should be allowed to jeopardize its conduct if our democracy is to be safeguarded and strengthened. In particular, no election should cost the life anyone in the state. He also enjoined the youths to understand the hope society places in them by resisting any provocation to cause chaos before, during and after the rerun election. Speaking further Ibrahim condemned the recent invasion of Nassarawa collation centre by some political thugs during collation process, calling on relevant security agencies and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) to sanction the perpetrators of the electoral offence and their political party accordingly. Centre cautions politicians against hate, dangerous speech Politicians resort to vote buying ahead of Kano rerun Kano governorship poll inconclusive, INEC says