The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State has rejected the decision taken by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the governorship election results from Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area. But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said INEC has done justice and that they are satisfied with the decision. INEC had on Friday set aside cancellation of results in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area, saying that continuation of collation of results will take place on Tuesday. It would be recalled that the results from Tafawa Balewa were earlier rejected after the local government collation officer, Mrs Dominion Anosike, said that there was intimidation and violence at the collation center. According to her, the collation centre was allegedly invaded by thugs who confiscated and tore some INEC forms. The results were later rejected by the INEC State Returning Officer, Professor Mohammed Kyari, after Mrs Anosike’s submission. But the APC, at a press conference in Bauchi, yesterday stated that the action taken by the electoral body was null and void. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Uba Ahmed Nana, said the position taken by INEC “contravenes the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended”. “Considering the letters and spirit of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999 as amended),  and the INEC Guidelines for 2019 General Elections, INEC is not empowered to reverse any decision taken at the Collation Center by the Returning Officer appointed for that purpose. Such decisions can only be reversed by a court of law, especially when INEC cannot approbate and reprobate,” he said. The party also accused the Festus Okoye-led committee of denying it fair hearing as “its agents were not invited during the hearing to ascertain the circumstances leading to the cancellation of the Tafawa Balewa Local Government election result. “The composition of the committee is also questionable as the committee chairman, Festus Okoye, is a close ally of and ex-personal solicitor of Yakubu Dogara of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). No justice can be done by the committee chairman who is interested in the whole issue and the instant circumstances. “This was proved by the fact that PDP has already pre-empted the outcome of the committee’s finding which was widely circulated on Social Media (On Yakubu Dogara’s Facebook page) before formal publication by INEC, “it added. According to the party,  the INEC decision based on the committee’s report was already prayed for at the Federal High Court Bauchi in suit No FHC/BAU/CS/18/2019 filed by Bala Mohammed and PDP against INEC. “Unfortunately, the extant decision of INEC reversing the cancellation of Tafawa Balewa Results was earlier sought for but refused by the court in the said suit at interim stage. Now INEC has granted what was refused by the court of law, “APC said. The party further added that it had in a letter dated 14th March, 2019, applied to INEC to cancel the result of Bauchi Local Government on ground of over-voting, non accreditation of voters and other electoral malpractices. “However, INEC is yet to respond or take action owing to our request on Bauchi LGA. It was our belief that INEC was an unbiased umpire but we are being disproved by the unfolding circumstances especially as regards the cases of Tafawa Balewa and Bauchi Local Government Areas. But the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) on its part, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its decision to re-collate and adopt the governorship election results from Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, while speaking to journalists said the committee sent by the electoral body has done a good job by allowing people’s will to prevail. “They have done justice. We cried foul and they set up a committee to investigate and the committee has done justice. To us, we still have confidence in INEC. What we don’t have confidence in are the police and other security agents who were compromised in all these issues. “They knew what happened when these people went to the collation center and vandalised it. They were there. And we were surprised that even the paper that the police usually hold were also vandalised. When INEC asked them, they said they were vandalised. Can you imagine somebody going to the police station to vandalise the papers? “So, we don’t have confidence in the commissioner of police and we don’t have confidence in the Director of SSS. “For us, we are waiting for justice to be done. As we told you from the beginning, our party won this election. And God so kind, INEC has done what is right. So, we are all prepared for whatever and we know that victory is with us, Insha Allah. Bauchi election: PDP, APC react to INEC decision on Tafawa Balewa results Bauchi PDP commends INEC over decision on Tafawa Balewa results Bauchi gov’ship: INEC rejects results from Tafawa Balewa