A former National Assembly member, representing Ekiti central in the Senate, Senator Bode Ola, has dumped the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Ekiti State. Ola, who represented Ekiti Central in the Senate between 2009 and 2011, joined his new party at Ward 6 in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, alongside a former assembly member (2003-2007), Hon. Segun Ola, with their supporters. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, received the new defectors into the APC fold at a rally held in Okeyinmi area of Ado Ekiti on Thursday. The former Senator served as the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) under former Governor Ayo Fayose while the former assembly member was also a member of the House of Assembly Service Commission. Ola said he was attracted to the APC because of the impact the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi has made in the lives of the people of Ekiti State. Senator Ola said: “The way this administration has started revealed that they have the love of the masses at heart. “The policies they made in the education sector are legendary; I was in charge of SUBEB in the last administration, a sum of N3.5 billion was left untouched. “Within this short period of time, we can see how this administration has rightfully deployed those resources to boost our education sector.” Receiving the defectors, Egbeyemi, who described the APC as the party that has the interest of the masses at heart, said Ekiti people had been enjoying a new lease of life under the Fayemi administration. Egbeyemi said: “We are happy that you (Senator Bode Ola) is back to our Party and we welcome Honourable Segun Ola. Senator Bode Ola has come back to where he belongs. “These are men of reputable character, they came from a good family.” The state APC Deputy Chairman, Mr Sola Elesin, charged the two defectors, to work assiduously for the progress and glory of the party. Gov’ship: PDP stakeholders endorse Fayose’s deputy Ekiti July 14: Who flies APC ticket? Ekiti 2018: PDP picks deputy gov. to succeed Fayose