The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said, yesterday, that the declaration of gubernatorial elections in some states as inconclusive was a ploy by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to alter the original results of the elections in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates. The party said declaring the governorship elections in states where the PDP was “in clear lead” as inconclusive showed that the current leadership of INEC was partisan and compromised “with obnoxious impunity.” Addressing a press conference, yesterday, in Abuja, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, called on all well-meaning Nigerians and PDP stalwarts to stage  a peaceful protest at INEC offices in the affected states. “The PDP has full intelligence of how INEC is acting on instructions from the Buhari Presidency and the APC in orchestrating unwholesome situations and declaring already concluded governorship elections in Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Plateau as well as other states as inconclusive, immediately it becomes obvious that the PDP was set to win. “This also informs the foisting of unexplainable stoppage and delays in the announcement of already collated results in other states where the PDP is clearly leading the race, from the results so far declared at the polling units. “Our party has also been informed of how INEC is now seeking ways to use the situation to aid the APC to alter the results and announce APC candidates as winners in the elections clearly led by the PDP just as it did in the 2018 Osun State governorship election. “In some of the states like Rivers, the PDP has information of plots by APC to leverage on the declaration by INEC to unleash more violence in the state and push for isolated election where they can bring in more security forces to concentrate on forcefully taking over the state. “The PDP cautions Prof. Yakubu and his INEC to perish the thoughts of altering any figures for the APC and to immediately announce our winning results in these states and others where our candidates clearly won, going by the results already declared at the poling units, wards and local government collation. Anything short of this will attract the legitimate wrath of the people. “Already, in Rivers State, INEC is under heavy pressure from the Director General of the Buhari Campaign Organization and Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, to post out and replace the State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) as well as the Administrative Secretary,” the party said. Declare Fintiri winner, PDP tells INEC PDP rejects "inconclusive" Osun vote, demands Adeleke declared winner Osun election rerun holds Thursday