* vows to contest for Deputy Senate President Ahead of the inauguration of the ninth National Assembly, a former Abia state Governor and Senator-elect for Abia North, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu on Wednesday vowed to contest for the position of the Deputy Senate President. He said he would respect the decision of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which has zoned the Senate President’s position to the North East. Speaking with newsmen on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Kalu said it is only fair and just to allow the South East to produce the Deputy Senate President. He also pledged to work to add value to Nigerians as a member of the National Assembly, saying his loyalty first and foremost is to the Nigerian people. He said he would bring his private sector experience to bear in galvanizing in his colleagues to enact laws that would improve the country’s economy. He however threatened to run for Senate President if the party denies the South East the position of the Deputy Senate President (DSP). The former governor said he learnt that the party ceded the DSP position to the North West saying it is not right. Kalu reiterated that he would make his intention known to the party’s leadership and President Muhammadu Buhari whom he said is poised to address issues of injustice in the South-East. He said ceding the DSP position to him would give South East a sense of belonging, declaring that he already has 56 Senators by his side. Reminded that a House of Reps member from the South East and same Abia, Hon. Nkeriuka Onyejeocha had declared for Speaker, Kalu said it is within her right legally to contest. He said, “Well, I am a very loyal party member, the party has zoned it (Senate Presidency) to the North East and I am bound to respect the party’s will and the second position is what we are not going to allow for the party. “As far as I am concerned, in the South East, I am going to run openly on the floor of the House for the Senate President. I am not going to listen to the party, neither will I listen to anybody. “Nobody who is going to be the Deputy Senate President is more loyal than I am to the party. I have suffered for the party, and I want the party to respect the will of every other person and I am committed to democracy. “We are going to be seeing votes on the floor of the House because Section 50 of the constitution made it very clear that the members of the National Assembly will elect their leaderships and I am going to use that section of the constitution to vie for the position. “So, if justice must prevail, you bring the Senate President from the North East and DSP to the South East. The chairman is from the South-South, the President is from the North West, the Vice-President is from South-West, the President of Senate will come from the North East, whether it’s Lawan or Ndume, the people will decide that on the floor of the House. “So, for me, Nigeria is a tripod; Ibo, Yoruba and Hausa. So, we are going to get the DSP and I will fight on the floor of the House like no other person has fought. This is no challenging the party, rather, this is looking for justice. “I learnt they ceded the DSP to the North West, but it is not right to do anything like that. We are going to contest this vehemently on the floor of the house. I have the backing of my colleagues. I am going to be withdrawing from the Senate presidency to run for DSP because the party is supreme. “Whether they gave it to an individual, that is left for the party at the National Assembly to decide, but for the DSP, I will contest with any candidate on the floor of the House”. It will be bad to deny south-easterners Senate President — APC chieftain I attracted 30 road projects to Abia North- Kalu Meet former, serving govs who’ve been elected senators