Men of Rivers State Police Command on Friday averted what would have turned out to be a bloody clash between the supporters of PDP and members of the amalgamation of Civil Society Organization in Port Harcourt. Supporters of PDP and members of the Amalgamation of Civil Society Organization had gathered at the popular Polo Field in the GRA part of Port Harcourt to carry out a protest to Port Harcourt/Aba road office of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC over delay by INEC to announce result of the election. While the CSO had gathered at the left wing of the Polo Field supporters of PDP were at right wing of the Field. There was a standoff between the groups as they were singing war song and throwing tantrum at each other. The two groups armed with placards bearing inscriptions of their support base were advancing towards GRA end of Port Harcourt when they were intercepted by the Police who advised them  to retrace and follow different routes to access INEC office but the plea fell on deaf ear as each group refused to heed to the advice. Several cannons of teargas were fired at the protesters to dispatch them. A senior Police Officer who pleaded anonymity said that the men of the force have no other option than to disperse both groups. He said that the two groups would have had a bloody clash if they were not disprsed on time by the Police . “Two groups had gathered at one point to carry out a peaceful protest. We adviced them to take different routes as to avoid clash but they refused. We have to disperse them  with teargas as to avert a bloody clash,” he said. Earlier the leader of the Amalgamation of Civil Society Organization, Dr Jackson Omenazu said that they were on their way to INEC to ask for the immediate transfer of the State Resident Electoral Commissioner. He said the State REC cannot be trusted with credible collation process of the governorship results in the State. Inside Rivers’ politics of blood bath The IGP should have acted earlier Re-run elections: Rivers political warlords return to trenches