A Board of Trustees (BoT) member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Abubakar Sanusi Gamji, has called on all senators-elect from the 36 states and the FCT to elect Sen. Ali Ndume (APC, Borno Central) as Senate president because of his starling qualities. Gamji, a leading gubernatorial aspirant of the APC in Kogi State in 2015, said yesterday that this is the payback time for Ndume who he described as a ranking senator, a highly principled legislator and a trustworthy lawmaker who fought for the survival of democracy in the National Assembly and Nigeria at large. Gamji, a die-hard supporter of the APC, said President Muhammadu Buhari needs the support of the National Assembly to actualize his lofty ideas and this could only be achieved with the likes of Ndume at the helm of affairs in the Red Chamber. “Of course, Ndume became the Senate leader in 2015 alongside the likes of Senator Bukola Saraki as Senate president. However, when Ndume realized that Saraki and others meant a different thing for the system, he revolted and stood for the truth and that was why they stripped him of the position and suspended him for too long. “Ndume was not deterred; he fought his way back to the Senate and remained highly principled. He means well for Nigeria, he means well for the APC-led government. I want all the legislators to set sentiments aside and vote for credibility,” Gamji said. He recalled that Ndume was elected to the House of Representatives in 2003 and got re-elected in 2007 when he held the position of minority leader of the House up till 2011 before he proceeded to the Senate. “Ndume was never found wanting and that is why his people continued to give him the mandate. He sponsored the highest number of bills during the 8th Senate; he is the right man for the job of the Senate president. “We should collectively support him to get the seat because he knows the workings of the legislature, he knows the workings of government and the system needs someone like him to deliver,” Gamji added.  Senate presidency: How not to canvass for senators votes Senate presidency: Saraki to pick Ndume as deputy 10 events that shaped Senate in 2017