The United Kingdom’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) has said Huawei’s 5G network equipment are not a threat to national security, adding that any potential risk posed from using the company’s equipment can be easily mitigated. This is coming weeks after restrictions in the United States on Huawei’s 5G network equipment, and controversial allegations that Chinese manufacturers are spying on the West. The NCSC has ruled out a blanket ban, but hasn’t formally settled on what to do in response to the US’s persuasion to ban the use of Huawei equipment. Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei, in an interview, stated categorically that “the US cannot crush Huawei”. Ren, had stated that despite the potential impact of the US plot on the business, he was confident Huawei’s revenue would grow to $125 billion in 2019 from more than $100 billion last year. Speaking on the NCSC’s findings regarding the safety of Huawei’s equipment, Ren reiterated the fact that many of the UK’s mobile companies, including Vodafone, EE and Three, are working with Huawei to develop their 5G networks. Analysts had speculated that the motivation behind the United States’ allegations are both commercial and geopolitical, especially since the United States and China are locked in a trade dispute that has disrupted the flow of hundreds of billions of dollars of goods between both countries. Reuters reported last year that President Donald Trump was considering an executive order for 2019 to declare a national emergency that would bar U.S. companies from using telecommunications equipment made by China’s Huawei and ZTE Huawei maintains its stand on non-involvement in allegations of spying, stating that it would not be in the company’s interest to do so, and would cause the company to lose its image and the current position in the international market. Daily Trust recalls that Huawei recorded sales revenues of up to $108.5 billion (US dollars) in 2018. Huawei’s 5G network equipments are not a threat to security – UK’s Cyber Security Centre Huawei fights back with strong 2018 performance Huawei throws in the towel