The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, has said Nigeria will reap enormous economic benefits if the proposed bill on the establishment of Chartered Computer Forensics Institute of Nigeria sails through. Dr. Onu said this when he received a foremost computer Forensic guru and the CEO of First Techno-Law Forensics Co. Ltd, Dr. Peter Olayiwola who led members of  Chartered Computer Forensics Institute of Nigeria in a courtesy visit to the minister in his office in Abuja. Dr. Onu said the Executive Order 5 would enable Nigerian professionals in various fields who have the necessary skills and ability to benefit from a knowledge and innovation driven economy being promoted by the Federal Government. Dr. Onu further said the establishment of a Chartered Forensic Institute in Nigeria would also enable Nigerian professionals rather than to handle forensic investigations. The Minister stated that Forensic Technology is another avenue for Nigerian scientists, researchers, Innovators and Stakeholders in the sector to key in to aid cyber-crime investigations in Nigeria. Dr. Onu said a committee comprising some specialised agencies of the ministry would be constituted to explore ways of boosting cyber security in the country. When forensic security is fully established, Dr. Onu added, there would be job opportunities for the teeming Nigerian youths while the military would also be empowered to counter cyber warfare and other crimes. He urged the forensics body to find ways of deploying made-in Nigeria technology and train Nigerians to handle these products for the development of Cyber-Security in Nigeria. Earlier, Dr. Peter Olayiwola, lauded the promotion of a bill to establish Chartered Forensics Institute of Nigeria and seek further collaboration with the ministry on more productive areas. According to him, the proposed collaboration was for the promotion of job creation in Nigeria. He further said the institute has trained personnel in the banking sector, the security agencies, the ministry of justice and the EFCC in improving performance of their professions. He further said the major aim of the Institute was for Nigeria to be the next technological market-hub for the world. CIFIAN's response over ICAN's rejection of legislative approval for the establishment of CIFIAN CIFIAN, A mechanism for fraud, corruption, Cyber-crimes prevention in Nigeria Ministry, institute to stop cyber crime