The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Adamawa State has urged President Buhari to thwart alleged attempt by Governor Muhammadu Jibrilla to drag him into a plot to upturn the outcome of the governorship election in the state. The governorship election was declared inconclusive after collation of results from the 21 local government areas with the PDP candidate, Ahmadu Fintiri on the lead with a margin of 32,476 votes which is lower than the total number of registered voters in the areas where election was cancelled. Fintiri scored 367,471 votes while his All Progressives Congress (APC) counterpart, Governor Muhammadu Jibrilla got 334,995 votes. Addressing journalists in Yola on Wednesday, the state PDP chairman, Barrister Tahir Shehu, said the party had already uncovered a plot to make the state High Court stop the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from conducting the supplementary election scheduled for 23rd March. “One of the alleged moves is to lobby the Presidency to cause the state High Court to slam the INEC with an Order of Injunction restraining the electoral body from conducting the supplementary election and cancel the entire elections”, he said. “They intend to use a governorship candidate who allegedly claimed that the logo of his party was omitted on the ballot in the last governorship election to file a case before the State High Court “, he added. He alleged that the same leadership of the State Government that refused to work hard for re-election of President Buhari during the Presidential election was now busy lobbying the Presidency to save them from defeat. “We urge the President to play the role of a father that he is as all of us here in Adamawa are also his own”, Tahir stated. He reminded the President that the state government had flouted his directive on bail out money and squandered the funds without settling arrears of pension and gratuity. “In the face of this is a crushing debt of about N150 billion. Yet over N400 billion was collected as State and Local Government Statutory Allocations for the past three years from the Federation Account by the outgoing State Government”, he said. How presidential polls will affect gov’ship elections JUST IN: INEC declares Adamawa guber election inconclusive Why Atiku won Adamawa by a whisker