Zamfara’s once-vibrant agrarian villages remain abandoned, as the pall cast by deadly banditry proves incredibly difficult to ignore, as Daily Trust Saturday found out. In Zamfara State, dozens of communities across the fourteen local government areas, following unending deadly attacks on them by armed men, are deserted. Waves of deadly raids and kidnappings that hit the farming and herding communities has forced roughly 30,000 to flee their homes and take refuge in relatively safer places across the state, and even beyond. In Kawaye district in Anka LGA, about 12 villages have been deserted owing to the series of abductions carried out by armed bandits in the last four years. Aliyu Muhammad Kawaye told Daily Trust Saturday that some of the residents that fled their homes were taking shelter in his village, before they were displaced again by the attack on his own community last month. “I can tell you that in Kawaye district only Dawan Jiya community is not deserted. Last August, villages like Tamuzge, Sabuwar Tunga, Tungar Daji, Tashar Birai, Tintija, all became deserted.” “Residents abandoned their crops and fled after armed bandits and cattle rustlers slammed heavy levies on them as precondition for peace. Communities with ten to twenty or more households have been abandoned, weeds overgrowing in compounds, and even living rooms, as most of them were abandoned more than five years ago.” A notorious armed bandit and cattle rustler identified as Gajere, is said to be behind many kidnappings, and cattle rustling in the district. “Millions of naira in ‘levies’ have been collected from residents by Gajere’s gang, and when it became unbearable, residents abandoned their homes,” Aliyu said. Checks by Daily Trust Saturday revealed that the communities of Zanuka, Tungar Tirke, Baude, Duhuwa, in Bawar Daji district were also abandoned. However, there are theories as to why the residents of Dawan Jiya and Gobirawa communities have managed to remain home, despite deadly raids on them. Last February, Kawaye community was attacked, and about 13 persons were killed and dozens of homes and vehicles torched. “After the attack, we learnt that the armed bandits met at Dawan Jiya, a village located 9km east of Kawaye and planned raids. No good person is staying in Dawan Jiya. All the good people have left the village, including the village head who had migrated to Kawaye community. Only Suspicious characters remain there.” “In the same vein, the people of Gobirawa village saw the motorbike riding gang of armed men heading to Kawaye that fateful evening, but no-one called to inform us,” Aliyu lamented. Chairman of Anka local government, Alhaji Mustapha Gado, told Daily Trust Saturday that he could not provide the figures of the deserted communities in his local government, but said they are “many”. In Dansadau district in Maru LGA, residents said about 30 villages were deserted and the houses in those communities remain empty. “Villages like Mai Getso, Kamgam, Mai Rediyo, Saulawa, Gangaren Aura and Gidan Hanza were all abandoned by the residents. The attacks became unbearable,” Halliru Dansadau said. Still on the Dansadau district, another resident Yau Dansadau listed the deserted communities as Gwauron Dutse, Danmani, Guru, Jesa, Tungar Rakumi, Gobirawar Madada, Farar Doka, Maimarahu, Kwa’e and Fankashi. In the same vein, about six villages were abandoned by the residents in Kware district of Shinkafi LGA. Residents said Atarawa, Ursasa, Farin Dutse, Unwala, Kukar Banda, and Gobirawa, have become ‘ghost towns’. The chairman of the local government, Alhaji Sani Muhammad Galadi, said he had no exact figures of the deserted communities. This month, more than 60 persons were killed in Kware district of Shinkafi LGA in two major attacks. The story is the same in Tsafe LGA, as Asaula and Rugumawa communities have since become mostly abandoned, according to a resident called Mustapha. He said even though few have managed to go back, to see whether they could start a new life, it’s still extremely difficult, as the attacks resumed soon after they returned home. However, the council chairman of the local government, Alhaji Abubakar Aliyu, told Daily Trust Saturday that the situation is improving, and many displaced persons have gone back home. Executive Secretary, Zamfara Emergency Management Agency (ZEMA), Alhaji Aminu Umar, told Daily Trust Saturday that from their own records, about 28 communities are now deserted. He said 31,402 were displaced following unending deadly attacks on their communities. Umar said the displaced residents are taking refuge in relatively safer places in Kankara and Faskari LGAs in neighbouring Katsina State. He further explained that from December 2018 to date, 408 people were killed, 126 injured and 227 kidnapped.  A week of carnage: How bandits killed over 80 in Zamfara Zamfara’s killing fields: The inside story Rescheduled polls hold in 77 polling stations in Zamfara