The family of the slain Colonel Muhammad Barak has urged the Federal Government to fish out and punish his killers. Barack, from Kano State, who was the Garrison Commander of 33 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army in Shadawanka Barracks, was reportedly killed by gunmen on the Bauchi-Jos Road on Sunday while riding a power bike from Kaduna. His uncle, Alhaji Muhammad Bello Barak, told Daily Trust that all the family wanted was justice. “We were only told that killers of late S’Barak came down from a hill in Mile 9 (Mil Tara) village along the Bauchi-Jos Road and opened fire on his moving car, resulting in his death. All we want is justice. Government and the Nigerian Army should hasten investigation to find out the killers of this gentleman. The entire family wants nothing apart from justice. The murderers should be fished out and punished according to the provision of the law,” he said. He described the deceased as a generous, religious, kind and honest person. He said the late military officer had served in Lagos, Kaduna, Plateau, Imo and Bauchi States as well as in Liberia, Sierra Leon, Pakistan, Darfur and Egypt. A close friend of Barak, Dr Nasirudeen Muhammad Baba, described him as a honest, humane and generous person’ and prayed Almighty Allah grant him aljannah firdaus. The Late Barak, a native of Kiru Local Government Area of Kano State, attended Kiru Primary School and  Tudun Wada Teachers College where graduated in 1982 before proceeding to Bayero University Kano where he studied Geography in 1987. Barak joined army and passed out in September 1990 as second lieutenant and was promoted lieutenant in 1992. He had served as Aide-De-Camp to the Late General Luka Yusuf and Chief Security Officer to the former Adamawa State military administrator, Late Colonel AG Husaini. Barak’s corpse was brought to Kano on Monday around 5pm and has since been buried according to Islamic rites. He is survived by a wife, aged mother and many relations. The Du pond of death Controversy surrounds disappearance of retired Major-General General Alkali’s killers must be found