His Royal Majesty King Bubraye Dakolo, Ibenanaowei of Ekpetiama Kingdom, Agada IV, is a first class King in Bayelsa State. The king among others called on the authority to factor the traditional institution into the constitution of the country. Excerpts: Your Majesty, you are about the youngest traditional ruler in Bayelsa State. When did you ascend the throne? Well, I assumed the throne of my forebears in 2016, though looks may be deceptive, I may not be the youngest royal father in the state or in the country, in my tradition, there is no young king, once you become the Ibenanaowei, you become the oldest man in the kingdom. So in my kingdom, I am the oldest man. I have a subject who is about 100 years old. So I am actually above 100 years, according to our practice. I may look young, my birth certificate may be young, but the truth is that the Ibenanaowei is the oldest man in Ekpetiama kingdom, so I refused to be label as the youngest king in Bayelsa State traditional rulers’ council. I am as old as the oldest. What have been your contributions to development of the society, especially in the area of maintaining peace and order? The Ibenanaowei has a lot of work to do. First, as an institution, we have realized that the Nigerian state has not been creative and forthcoming as it ought to be. The traditional institution is occupying little or no space in the constitution of this country, which is so sad. It underscores the premium that the citizens are putting on the traditional institution. The traditional institution is not captured in the Nigerian constitution, its means that we are of little or no value, which is dangerous. Most of what we do today, including the language I’m speaking was brought here by Europeans centuries ago, and our style of governance is essentially European, to a very great extent. But we are not Europeans, we are Africans. So, in spite of everything, we still come to our equilibrium, which is what we are, but looking at Europe a bit, I was physically present in England when one of the recent great grand children of the monarchy was born and these people essentially sounded a gong, saying, a new child has been born, they carried out all the traditional rites. But here in Nigeria, certain people even want to wish off a traditional institution. But traditional institution is the reason Nigeria has some semblance of stability. Traditional rulers are the closest to the people, so, if you are talking about trying to bring about peace, identifying criminals and other things in the communities, it is the traditional institution that is able to help in that regard. Unfortunately, there is no budget for the institution, there are no resources made available to do this very noble job. I believe that if the traditional institution is given that desired recognition and supported with funds, it will definitely bring about peace in the Nigeria and the world. Are you saying that the roles of traditional rulers be stipulated in the constitution? Yes, it’s not necessary roles, because it will be difficult for a non traditional ruler to also have his roles stipulated, but we all have ways that we administer our kingdoms. So, let them put the traditional institution in the constitution that will allow us do our duties with government backing, in our own enclaves. We are not going to be at cross purposes with the government, but the fact is that you are now recognize, just like journalists are recognize to do their journalistic jobs where you do not need to reveal your source of information, even if it is at the risk of your neck, because that is against the law and the constitution protect you. What are the challenges you confront as a king? The first challenge is the western-style government that has not factor in the traditional roles into the constitution and recognizing them. We have a role to play and the earlier they recognise that, the better for us. Also, I would have love to have my own guards in the kingdom, but right now, if I do that and have to punish somebody for an offence, it will be a violation. If I want to punish somebody I shall inform the police. But how sincere is the police when I tell them to come and apprehend somebody for an offence. But if there is a community police in the kingdom and certified vigilante, they will know everyone in the community, they will know the thieves before they steal, you know those who are inclined towards law-breaking even before they do, so you can easily bring about that desired law and order in the community. Prince Charles’ symbolic violence against Nigerian monarchs Why we are honouring Daily Trust Charles Windsor: a Prince the equal of Kings?