The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has insisted that the will of the party must prevail in the formation of the next leadership of the National Assembly. Tinubu said the party must not repeat the mistake of the 2015 when the party was a “little careless” and in the process, created opportunity for “serpents” to get into the party. He spoke at his residence in Lagos during a special prayer organized to mark his 67th birthday. While speaking with the press after the prayers, attended by his supporters and party chieftains, Tinubu said any member who cannot respect the decision of the party on the composition of the NASS leadership is free to leave. Daily Trust reports that the APC leadership had settled for Senator Ahmed Lawan as the next Senate President and Chairman of the National Assembly. However, there are discordant tunes from some lawmakers who accused the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole of taking a unilateral decision in the choice of Lawan. Senator Ali Ndume from Borno State had also indicated interest in the Senate Presidency. Also, many lawmakers have shown interest in the Speakership of the House of Representatives even though the party is believed to have favoured Femi Gbajabiamila from Lagos State. However, other lawmakers, including Rep. Abdulrazak Namdas (Adamawa, North East); Nkeriuka Onyejeocha (Abia, South East), among others have declared interest in the position. But Tinubu insisted the APC members must bow to the wishes of the party. He said: “There must be discipline in the party. We were a little careless in 2015. We created the opportunity for serpents to get into our party and Nigeria didn’t make the progress. “You have seen the results. We are not going to allow that again. We are going to respect our party and we are going to apply the wheel. It is either you stay with us, you follow us or you leave”. Atiku, Tinubu  consider plan ‘B’ On N/Assembly leadership and Tinubu’s gaffe Tinubu asks Obasanjo to retire from politics over NASS jumbo pay