Ahead of the forth-coming re-run governorship/House of Assembly elections in Kano state, the Nigeria Police headquarters has deployed more police units to provide security cover during the polls. The elections would hold in 280 voting points across 29 local government areas whose results were cancelled during collation process in the March 9th, governorship/House of Assembly elections due to violence and other electoral irregularities. Speaking in Kano at a one day town hall meeting on Thursday, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Wakili assured the residents of maximum security during the poll, urging them to cooperate with the security agencies to ensure that the process is not compromised. He urged the youth to comport themselves in a civil manner during the exercise saying the command would not hesitate to deal decisively with anyone caught fomenting trouble in any polling unit. C P Wakili who was represented by ACP Abubakar Zubairu further asked the politicians to rely on their track records and integrity to seek votes for themselves rather than employing dubious means that are capable of compromising security of the state. “I want every one of you to get it at the back of his mind that violence will not do no body any good. If you allow the process to take care of itself, and if every vote will be allowed to count why the violence. I just want to inform anybody here that if anybody wants to engage in violence definitely we are ready for the person and the law will take its course. “Luckily for us we have gotten a lot of support from force headquarters, a lot of policemen are already in, we have mobile policemen, and other units, all of them are in Kano. For the remaining election we will leave no stone unturned to ensure that it is violence free, but if you want to test our might you can come out but believe me we are going to seriously deal with you” he added. He said the command had already directed all the DPOs and the area commanders to arrest trouble makers and the thugs within their areas. He revealed that about 1800 suspects comprising drug dealers, political thugs popularly known as Yandaba had been arrested awaiting prosecution in various prisons across the state. He further advised the parents to talk to their children not to be used by any politician for selfish interest. “Any politician that don’t mean well to you is the one that will ask you to go and take cutlass perpetrate evil, where are his children? They are not here, they are all abroad why are they mortgaging your future? So I beg in the name of God, don’t because of the N1000 they will give you engage yourself in violence because we will severely deal with you” CP added. The town hall meeting was convened for various stakeholders in the election process by the National Peace Committee in collaboration with Kano election Peace Committee to chart a way for a peaceful conduct of the re-run election in the state. Kano re-run: Police assure residents of safety Election: How CP steered Kano away from earthquake Inconclusive elections: Emir of Kano sues for peace