The Assistant Inspector General of Police, (AIG), Chris Okey Ezike on Wednesday said that more senior officers of the police and tactical team would be arriving Benue State to ensure absolute security in crisis prone areas of the state during this Saturday’s election. Ezik, who spoke at a stakeholders meeting towards achieving a peaceful election, stressed the need for residents in Benue State to conduct themselves in an orderly manner during the exercise. “We’re expecting more senior officers and tactical team to ensure security at some local government areas which we considered as flash points,” he said. The AIG warned trouble makers to stay clear of the election as enough personnel would be deployed to ensure law and order in collaboration with all other security agencies in the state and stressed the need for restriction order to be obeyed to the letter. He, however, hailed Benue people for their peaceful conduct during Presidential and National Assembly elections despite the earlier fear that some parts of the state were prone to crisis. “You heard all what happened across the country but we are happy that whatever happened within Benue was what we were able to control. Everyone learnt a lesson during the Presidential and National Assembly election and it is supposed  to positively impact to make the Saturday’s election better,” he added. Ezike assured that the security agencies in the state have capacity to deal with any element who might want to cause trouble as he advised voters to go out and exercise their franchise without fear. Benue-Plateau Chronicle reports that the police deployed 7,000 personnel to provide security in the state during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. This was in addition to similar deployments by Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. Although there was an attack on some communities on the eve of the last elections our correspondent reports that the police recorded no major security breach before, during or after the polls.  Foreign observers won’t go back in body bags  – IGP Emir Sanusi to AIG: Address cattle rustling, armed robbery in Kano Election: Police deploy over 6000 in Bauchi