Just few hours to the supplementary elections slated to hold today’s Saturday, the All Progressives Congress’ candidate for Ezza North-west State constituency, Barr Chikaodili Nomeh has discontinue his ambition. Barr. Nomeh who got verdict from the court recently to stand as the authentic candidate of the party,  further lend his support to the  candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Hon. Victor Chukwu. The State Assembly elections  of March 9, was stalled in three constituencies in the State which comprises of Ezza North-West Ezza North-East and Izzi East owing to violence and destruction of electoral materials by political thugs. Nomeh, while addressing newsmen in Abakaliki, blamed the APC leadership and the guber candidate for the abysmal failure the party recorded in the last election. He adduced that such was a major reason for his decision to discontinue his ambition today. Nomeh who, emphasized that his decision was made freely without coercion, congratulated Governor David Umahi and the People’s Democratic Party. He added that he consulted widely with his supporters before taking the step. His words:”The borderline of the whole issue were visible disposition of the APC in the State as demonstrated in both electioneering campaigns and elections proper where the party lost even in the guber candidate’s polling unit to the rampaging Peoples Democratic Party in the National Assembly elections in the State. “With all the issues, it became obvious that APC in the State was never serious in elections.” “Therefore,  after a thorough consultation with family members and political associates,  I hereby resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress,  and withdraw from the contest as well as the supplementary election slated to hold in Ezza North-West State constituency on Saturday, 23rd March,  2019.” Nomeh finally called on his teaming supporters to accept the decision in good faith while joining hands with him in support of the developmental programmes ongoing in the State even as he moved to the PDP. Grumbling in states as govs anoint successors Disqueit in Ondo guber race Family warns against politicizing death of LGA APC chairman