As Nigerians go to the polls tomorrow, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are set for epic contest in 12 of the 29 states where governorship election will hold, Daily Trust reports. Governorship elections will not take place in Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo, Ekiti, Kogi, Ondo and Osun, but state assembly polls will hold nationwide. States where the elections are set to be tough are Lagos, Kano, Kaduna, Plateau, Rivers, Kwara, Bauchi, Benue, Delta, Taraba, Akwa Ibom, Ogun and Imo. Less known parties being supported by APC governors in Imo and Ogun states may also pull surprises in the polls as Governors Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun move to defeat their party.  Lagos In Lagos State, both APC and PDP candidates are locked in last-minute politicking aimed at neutralising the capacity of each other at tomorrow’s election. The APC has Babajide Sanwo- Olu as its candidate while the PDP has Mr Jimi Agbaje. Within the ruling APC, there have been series of meetings and grassroots mobilisation since the last presidential and National Assembly elections it managed to win with a slim margin. The Igbo, seen as the second largest voting bloc aside the Yoruba, have proven hard-nuts to crack, usually voting for the opposition, the PDP. APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is working hard to turn the tide, with Sanwo-Olu already securing endorsements of Lagos State Chapter Ohaneze Ndigbo and the Igbo Conscience (TIC) which is being led by Lagos APC Publicity Secretary Joe Igbokwe, among other prominent personalities. The PDP on the other hand has been buoyed by the figure it polled at the February 23 presidential election even as it vowed to resist any planned disruption of voting in its strongholds. Agbaje is being supported by aggrieved members of the APC, some of whom have hitherto worked for the emergence of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, whom they believe was unjustly denied a second term ticket. Leading the aggrieved persons were former Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi, the immediate past Commissioner for Energy, Wale Oluwo, and Fuad Oki, who has been leading a splinter faction of the APC in the state. Similarly, Agbaje has also succeed in winning the endorsement of Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere,  PANDEF, among others.  The PDP has also started working with a new pressure group known as “O to Ge Lagos” being shepherd by former President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olisa Agbakoba, among others. The group is seeking to re-enact a similar political revolution that took place in Kwara State.  Kano In Kano State, APC’s Governor Abdullahi Ganduje is facing a stiff challenge from PDP’s Abba Kabiru Yusuf and PRP’s Malam Sagir Takai. A Kano resident, Alhaji Ibrahim Muhammad Dankani, said the political rivalry between the two major political groups, Gandujiyya and Kwankwasiyya has sent jitters to voters. The groups had engaged each other in the violent confrontations ahead of presidential and National Assembly elections. Muhammad Isa said “Another factor is Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso’s interest in the election. Although he is not contesting, he is fighting to ensure the victory of his candidate Abba Kabir Yusuf. “Ganduje on the other hand is also desperate to return as governor for the second time. Their desperation can lead to serious chaos in Kano if care is not taken.”  Rivers Tension and apprehension have pervaded Rivers State. Governor Nyesom Wike is seeking a second term on the platform of PDP, while the APC, which has been barred from fielding candidates, adopted Engr. Awara Biokpomabo, the candidate of Africa Action Congress (AAC). The development has already added to the rift between the Minister of Transportation Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and a faction of the APC in Rivers State loyal to Senator Magnus Abe which did not key into the endorsement of the AAC candidate. The fear of the killings in Abonnema, Bonny, Emouha and Degema during the Feb. 23 elections, as well as the verbal war between Governor Wike and the Nigerian Army remains a source of concern. Suspected thugs during the presidential election had invaded the 130 Battalion of the Nigerian Army and shot dead a second Lieutenant and injured other soldiers. The incident led to a reprisal attack by the soldiers which led to the death of more than 15 persons. In market and public places, tomorrow’s election dominate public discuss. In churches the clergies cautioned their members to be careful about their movement during the election. Speaking during a town hall meeting with leaders of Rivers East Senatorial District in Port Harcourt, yesterday, Governor Wike charged the people not to be intimidated by soldiers, as they have a duty to vote during the election. “If they arrest 2000 persons, they will see more than 10, 000. Our people should be security conscious about their movement because these people are very desperate,” the governor  said. The 6 Division of the Nigerian Army said they have a constitutional mandate to provide security during the elections.  Kaduna Observers said religion and ethnicity will affect the pattern of voting in Kaduna, where APC’s Nasir El-Rufai is seeking reelection with Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, a Muslim from Southern Kaduna, as his running mate. The PDP candidate, Isa Ashiru, has Sunday Marshal Katung, a Christian from Southern Kaduna, as his running mate. In the last elections, the PDP won in the predominantly Southern part of the state while APC won in the northern and central zones. Our correspondents learnt that the PDP is trying hard to convince the electorate that the contest is not religious. Money would also play a major role in determining the winner as many are bound to be swayed if financially induced. Muhammed Ibrahim Sani, a native of Kafanchan, said Muslim/Muslim ticket is not a problem as far as competency is there. The Anglican Bishop of Kafanchan Diocese, Rt. Reverend Markus Dogo lamented how the state is torn along religious lines. “Our people are badly factionalised. The bond that made us a people is shattered. In this election religion is the major divide. Whatever the case I pray that the masses should not be killed, but be allowed to go about their daily food,” he said.  Plateau Leading contenders in Plateau State include Governor Simon Lalong of APC and Jeremiah Useni of PDP. Religion is already a major player in Plateau’s gubernatorial election and allegations against the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN) of meddling into the political arena has only heightened this tension. This is despite the fact that the Church had insisted it was neutral and does not favour a particular candidate. Helen Awodi, an ex-Corps member who lives around Kiyan Rikkos in Jos North, is worried that the governorship elections in Plateau State is portrayed as “a do or die affair” and so she plans to relocate from her home to a safer area. Jos North LGA with the highest number of 453,556 registered voters in the state will be the deciding area which both APC and PDP are doing a lot to attract.  Taraba and Benue In Taraba, Governor Darious Ishaku is seeking a second term on the platform of PDP while Sani Danladi is the candidate of APC. The state is equally tensed over the role religion might play in the voting pattern. In Benue State, our correspondent reports that the battle is between Governor Samuel Ortom and APC’s Barrister Emmanuel Jime. A voter, Tor Sakera, said people are likely to move away from the normal voting based on lines to credibility. He said the presence of military and other security agencies has generated fears in the past two days. Another voter, Joseph Otima, said killings linked to herdsmen crisis will determine the outcome of the election in favour of PDP while the school feeding/N-power empowerment initiated by the APC’s Federal Government will play a positive part for the APC.  Bauchi Moves by major political parties in Bauchi State have elicited aura of fear. Although there are over 30 candidates, the leading candidates are the incumbent, Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar of the APC, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed of the PDP, Professor Mohammed Ali Pate of the PRP, Ambassador Shu’aibu Ahmed Adamu of NNPP and Mohammed Jumba of GPN. Although not much violence was seen during the last election, there is apprehension as political thugs, popularly known as Sara-Suka, are visible in the entourage‎ of the candidates. Governor Abubakar had few days ago read the riot act vowing to deal with miscreants when he visited some people who sustained injuries from an alleged attack by hoodlums.  Ogun In Ogun State, major political parties have been locked up in last minutes alliances ahead of tomorrow’s election. Just yesterday, a faction of the PDP adopted the governorship candidate Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Adekunle Akinlade as its candidate who is being supported by Governor Ibikunle Amosun. Former Ogun State Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has equally directed his supporters to vote for APC’s Dapo Abiodun. While both APC and APM had benefited from last minutes alliances, Buruji Kashamu of the PDP is going into the poll banking on Ogun East as his strongholds. However, the battle between APC and Amosun’s sponsored APM is raising fears of possible violence.  Akwa Ibom In Akwa Ibom State, Governor Udom Emmanuel is seeking a second term on the platform of PDP while Nsima Ekere is the candidate of the APC. There are fears of violence following what happened during the presidential and National Assembly elections. Sen. Godswill Akpabio, who lost his bid to go back to the Senate, is reportedly working hard to deliver Akwa Ibom so that he will remain relevant at the centre. But the PDP led by Uche Secondus are also solidly behind Governor Emmanuel to retain his seat.  Kwara The APC in Kwara State which won all the National Assembly seats has received the support of the Labour Party for tomorrow’s election. Senate President Bukola Saraki who has lost his bid to go back to the Senate is said to be solidly behind the candidature of PDP’s candidate, Abdulrazaq Atunwa. But reactions in the state shows that a lot of forces and alliances are working against the senate president which many accused of impoverishing of the state and hell bent on retiring him from politics.  Imo In Imo, Emeka Ihedioha is candidate of the PDP, Senator Hope Uzodinma is candidate of the APC while Action Alliance (AA) has Uche Nwosu. Nwosu is backed by Governor Rochas Okorocha and if what transpired in the past few months is anything to go by, the contest will be fierce.  How presidential polls will affect gov’ship elections Tambuwal, El-Rufa’i, Masari, Ganduje win Nigeria decides today