The North South Power Company Limited (NSP), through NSP-SPV PowerCorp Plc, has issued its first N8.5 billion 15 year 15.6 percent series 1 guaranteed fixed rate senior green infrastructure bonds due 2034 under a N50 billion debt issuance programme. The Series 1 Green Bonds is the first certified green corporate bond and the longest tenured (15 year) corporate bond issued in the Nigerian debt capital market. The signing ceremony was held in Abuja. United Capital Plc, is the lead issuing house and financial adviser of the first Corporate Green Infrastructure Bond by NSP- SPV PowerCorp Plc. Commenting, United Capital Plc’s Group Chief Executive Officer, Peter Ashade, said “United Capital is always exploring ways to provide innovative investment banking solutions to our clients. We congratulate our client, North South Power, on a successful transaction of the Corporate Green Infrastructure Bond as we work together in achieving a common goal.” The Executive Vice Chairman and CEO of North South Power Company Limited, Engr. Olubunmi Peters noted that the success of the bond issuance is a significant milestone in the company’s long-term corporate strategy, demonstrating its market leadership, innovation and commitment to the highest standards of environmental, social and corporate governance. “With the completion of the Series 1 Guaranteed Green Infrastructure Bonds issuance, the company has established a long-envisioned link with a more sustainable long-term, local currency financing required to implement its ambitious strategic power generation expansion plan through the capital markets.” The promoters say the Series 1 Green Bonds was oversubscribed by 60% with firm commitments from 12 institutional investors including nine pension funds, and priced at 70 bps spread to the comparable 15-year sovereign benchmark bond (FGN 2034) using the closing yield on the reference date (04 February 2019) adopted for the book building. NSP currently generates, on the average, 8 percent of Nigeria’s power – providing power to millions of Nigerians – and aims to be the leading power company in Sub-Saharan Africa by safely providing affordable, reliable and sustainable power to its customer base.  Sterling Bank lists N33bn bonds on NSE, FMDQ States raised N791.2bn bonds in 40 years Sterling Bank, FCMB SPV raise debt capital on FMDQ markets