…as APC retains Kwali  The incumbent chairmen of Bwari and Kuje area councils have lost their re-election bids as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declares candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party winners of the supplementary polls conducted on Saturday. Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo of the PDP was declared the winner of the Kuje Area Council supplementary election. The INEC returning officer,  Prof. Titus Ibekwe,  said Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo scored 19,090 to defeat the incumbent chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who polled 15,201 votes. INEC had declared the March 9 Kuje chairmanship election inconclusive and ordered supplementary polls in some polling units in Rubochi, Kwaku and Kabi wards. Also, the incumbent chairman of the Bwari area council, Musa Dikko of the APC lost to Shekwogaza Gabaya of the (PDP). Prof. Mohammed Umaru, the returning/collation officer for the council’s supplementary election announced that Gabaya of PDP polled a total of 31,114 votes, and therefore declared him winner. He said, “Shekwogaza Gabaya of PDP, having certified the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared the winner and is returned elected.” He said Musa Dikko, scored a total of 24,137 votes, while Mr Haruna Mohammed of the People’s Trust (PT) party scored 1,458 to come third. The supplementary election was conducted in four wards of the council, namely Igu, Kubwa, Duste and Kawu Wards. Meanwhile, the chairmanship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwali area council, Danladi Bomboyi Chiya, has been declared winner of the supplementary election in the council. The returning officer, Prof. Simon Malang Kawe, said Chiya of the APC scored 14, 245, while the candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP) Mr. Ibrahim Daniel, got 14,189 votes. BREAKING: PDP topples APC in Kuje, wins chairmanship election UPDATED: How Ganduje won Kano Guber poll — INEC AMAC, Abaji, Gwagwalada bosses win re-election