More lawmakers-elect have indicated interest to vie for the four leadership positions in both chambers of the National Assembly during inauguration of the 9th Assembly in June, Daily Trust has learnt. The new entrants into the contest are in addition to those that have already indicated interest for the positions. In the Senate, it was learnt that Sen Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta State has gone far in making contacts to occupy the Deputy Senate President’s seat, having won reelection on February 23. He is one of the only two returning senators from the South South zone, the other being Deputy Chief Whip Francis Alimekhena from Edo State. It was also gathered that Sen Oluremi Tinubu, wife of APC National Leader Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is also joining the contest for Deputy Senate President. She is from the same state with Femi Gbajabiamila, who is gunning for speaker. In the House of Reps, Daily Trust learnt, yesterday, in Abuja that Rep Garba Datti Muhammad is in the contest for the office of Deputy Speaker. ‎A ranking member who has been in the House since 2007, Datti  was the Deputy Minority Whip in the House between 2011 and 2015. The lawmaker, who was a member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly for 2003 to 2007, is believed to have the backing of some of his colleagues to clinch the seat, including some major party stakeholders outside the National Assembly. Similarly, Rep Aminu Suleiman from Kano State, who chairs the House Committee on Tertiary Education and TETFund is gunning for speaker. A third-term member who represents Fagge Federal Constituency of Kano State, Suleiman is believed to have gone far with his aspiration as he has since contacted most of his colleagues on the matter. Suleiman will be joining other lawmakers such as Babangida Ibrahim from Katsina State in the North-west for the position of speaker even as Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila also from Kano State has indicated interest to go for deputy speaker. Another member, Rep Abubakar Lado Suleja from Niger State has reportedly joined the race for Deputy Speaker. Other contenders for the office of Senate President are Ahmad Lawan (Yobe), Mohammed Ali Ndume (Borno),  Mohammed Danjuma Goje (Gombe) and Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa). As for speaker, the likes of Gbajabiamila (Lagos), Mohammed Tahir Monguno (Borno), Ahmed Idris Wase ‎(Plateau), Babangida Ibrahim (Katsina) are among the early contenders. APC considers North for Senate president, South for speaker Race for NASS Leadership Hots Up PDP plots to pick Ogor as Dogara’s deputy thickens