Following the success of Diaspora enrolment which kicked off in South Africa early this month, the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) has extended the programme to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the United Kingdom (UK). “The extension is in line with NIMC’s mandate to ensure that all Nigerian citizens in Nigeria and the Diaspora and Legal Residents in Nigeria are enrolled into the National Identity Database and issued the unique National Identification Number (NIN) to applicants upon successful enrolment”, the Commission’s Director General/CEO, Engr. Aliyu Aziz, said in a statement on Monday. The NIN enrolment in UAE and the UK, according to Engr. Aziz,  is in collaboration with the Defcon  Systems Limited (DSL) and the National eAuthentication Limited (NeAL), two of the Nigerian Companies licensed by the NIMC to serve as  its  agents, and carry out enrolment services across the globe with a view to ensuring best-in-class services and inclusivity. ‘’The exercise will involve the demographic and biometrics data capture of all Nigerian citizens residing in the two countries. The UAE programme is scheduled to take off on Tuesday 26th March, 2019 at the Online Integrated Solutions DMCC office, 22nd Floor, Silver Tower, cluster I, Jumeirah Lake Towers Dubai, UAE. ‘’While the UK programme will take off on Friday 29th March 2019 at the Online Integrated Solutions offices as follow: The NIMC chief further reiterated that the programme will make it easier for Nigerians in Diaspora to be identified as the Federal Government of Nigeria has made the possession of NIN a mandatory requirement for elections, bank account opening, land transactions, access to legal/health services, acquisition/renewal of the International Passport, driver’s license and the ECOWAS travel document, amongst others. He added that the roll out of additional locations in other cities across the globe where Nigerians reside will be concluded and announced in due course. The Nigerian companies licensed to work with their respective partners across all countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and America to carry out the enrolment of Nigerian adults and children in the Diaspora into the National Identity Database (NIDB) are Biosec Solutions Limited, CHAMS Consortium Limited, Defcon Systems Limited, National eAuthentication Limited, Thebez Global Resources and Venn Technology Limited. NIMC begins diaspora enrolment in South Africa National Identification Number central to achieving economic growth – Engr Aziz NIN: NIMC begins enrolment of Nigerians in South Africa