Hundreds of Lagos state residents on Thursday turned up for blood donation for victims of the collapsed three-storey building at Ita-Faji area of Lagos Island hours after appeal on social media. About 20 residents including pupils of a Nursery/Primary School operating within the building lost their lives while tens of others were rushed to different hospitals on Lagos Island on Wednesday. Red Cross among other humanitarian groups have launched mass appeal for voluntary blood donation for survivors of the accident on social media. Daily Trust correspondent who was at the Lagos Island General Hospital and Lagos Island Maternity Centre on Thursday, observed impressive turn up of volunteering residents, subjecting themselves to medical checks,  while donating blood for the victims of the collapsed building. Daramola Hassan, who works with a telecommunication firm said he and his friends got the appeal via a WhatsApp broadcast message and chose to come to the Lagos Island General  Hospital to donate blood. “I believe this is the least we can contribute as a people. Besides, the General Hospital is close to our office.  We hope little efforts of ours and that of others who have turned up here will be of immense contribution to the well being of these affected persons,” Hassan said. Similarly, Aminat Solahudeen, a 35-year old caterer, who also came to donate blood said as a mother, she was moved by the plights of many of the victims especially the children and was interested in contributing her quota to help the affected. Although some of the medical staff attending to the donors said it would be too early to give exact number as people have been turning up since morning,  Daily Trust correspondent observed that as at the time of visit,  hundreds were in attendance both at the General Hospital and  the Maternity. Many were seen filling data collating forms given to them by the medical staff before being assessed and made to donate blood. The Head, Social Work Department, Lagos Island General Hospital,  Oluwakemi Olumuyide said the turnout of Lagos residents have been quite impressive, saying the gesture will go a long way to meet the blood demand of some of the victims. “Of course, the blood being donated won’t just be passed to the accident survivors.  We are going to screen the blood and ensure that they are safe. “We are happy that the survivors are also responding to treatment. And except for those who lost their lives at the scene of the incident, none of those who were brought in has died,” Olumuyide said. Building collapse: Red Cross, others appeal for blood for victims Boy, 6, survives 24hrs after Lagos building collapse Collapsed buildings:  How innocents pay for negligence