Palpable tension hovers around Oto-Awori community and its environs in Ojo over Thursday’s bloody war which erupted between factional members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the area. At least two persons were feared killed and many others injured while shops were looted in the fracas that saw both factions using dangerous weapons. Armed soldiers from Ibereko barracks and policemen from Ijanikin are stationed in the area to prevent a reprisal attack. It was learnt that crisis started when the supporters of the candidate of APC contesting in Saturday’s State House of Assembly election, Suleiman Raji alias Jafo, who also doubles as the State chairman of ANACOWA Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association, an affiliate of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) and those loyal to a former Chairman of Oto-Awori Local Council Development Area  (LCDA), Hon. Kayode Robert aka Bibire met at the Palace of the Oloto of Oto. It was learnt that Jafo had allegedly taken his campaign train to the Oloto’s Palace, an action which a palace hand said was deliberately done to provoke the youths. It was also alleged that the move was resisted by those said to be loyal to Bibire. An eye witness said that Bibire’s loyalists  felt that their political godfather was allegedly robbed of victory during the party’s primary elections held last year in favor of Jafo. The witness said that the aggrieved youths allegedly felt that Jafo shouldn’t have ventured to the area with his boys, going by what happened during the party’s primary elections. Taiye Akanbi, a mechanic at Oto Awori alkeged that Bibire’s boys attempted to bar Jofa from access to the palace. “What followed is gun shots fired by those on the campaign train of Jafo.  Bibire’s boys returned the fire. The first person who was killed was macheted by Jado’s boys,” he added. Another source said that the clash started around 1pm and continued till about 5pm with the factions blocking the expressway by the Headquarters of Oto Awori LCDA and vandalising over 35 vehicles at some mechanic workshops. A young man was allegedly beaten to death, while many others sustained varying degrees of injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital. A witness Sesan Adedayo said more than four people sustained serious injuries and were rushed to a hospital at Cele Bus Stop, Ijanikin. He said the campaigners imported motorcyclists and hoodlums from Ojo to cause mayhem. Adedayo said the hoodlums were armed with cutlasses, broken bottles and knives which they used freely. The source said that it took the intervention of the police and soldiers to restore normalcy in the area. When our correspondent visited the palace of the Oloto of Oto Awori, His Roya Highness Oba Josiah Olarewaju Ilemobade Aiyrni, the Kuyamiku the first, he said he was still gripped with shock by the show of power exhibited by Jafo and his boys. The Oloto of Oto who spoke through Chief Rufus Fatogun the Balogun of Oto Awori said that Jafo, a chief in the palace would have called his boys to order knowing full well that he had come to visit the Oba. He said that the action of Jafo was premeditated, going by identity of those on his campaign train. “His boys damaged well over 35 vehicles including three parked in front of the palace. One person was severely injured but thank God that no one died in the fracas. It was not a campaign because no party leader was among those who came only members of Okada riders and owners’ association. “He did the same thing during the primary elections last year. He brought his boys to beat up party delegates and that was how he emerged the party’s candidate. “The Oba went round in the morning to appeal to the youths mot to allow the infarction dampen their morale. “The police did not help matters at all. It took them over an hour to get to the palace which is less than five minutes away from the station. And when they eventually arrive the started firing indiscriminately. It was the soldiers that brought normalcy to the area” he added. Contacted, police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP) said no one died in the fracas. Oti said about two persons sustained injuries and few cars were vandalised. “The two people who sustained injuries were taken to the hospital, treated and discharged. No one died. It was a clash between supporters of a political party. Few vehicles were vandalised and the Local Government Chairman has promised to repair the vehicles,” said Oti. According to him, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Yomi Faniyi immediately mobilised to the scene when he got information about the incident, adding that he also held meetings with the factions Thursday evening. JUST IN: Two killed, 35 vehicles damaged, shops looted as APC factions clash in Lagos 3 injured as party supporters clash in Zamfara APC: Parallel congresses hold in Adamawa, Zamfara, Enugu