In recent years, cases of insecurity have left Nigerians worried from the insurgency to cattle rustling, kidnapping and banditry. This is so much so that, Nigerians have resorted to defending themselves in various ways including with arms, many of which are sourced from around the country and has led to small arms proliferation. Studies have been carried out on the issue in Nigeria, by Small Arms Survey (SAS), a global centre generating evidence-based, impartial, and policy-relevant knowledge and analysis on small arms and armed violence issues for governments, policy-makers, researchers, and civil society. Findings from a survey SAS carried out in parts of Nigeria were published in a briefing paper, ‘Handmade and Deadly: Craft Production of Small Arms in Nigeria,’ by Matthias Nowak and André Gsell, who are both SAS researchers. The report, established that, “Craft weapons are mostly purchased to protect and defend individuals and communities.” The production of these arms, is perceived as a form of community service in times of heightened insecurity. According to the report, which quoted preliminary findings from the National Small Arms and Light Weapons Survey (NSALWS), “about one-fifth (17 per cent) of civilian, rural weapons holders countrywide possess craft weapons and one-tenth in urban areas.” With the aid of blacksmithing skills craft producers manufacture various weapons with their type and quality varying from muzzle-loading ‘Dane guns’ to 9 mm semiautomatic pistols based on Beretta models, and to assault rifles and sub-machine guns. “Break-action shotguns and pistols are the most popular craft weapons produced in surveyed states,” it said. With craft weapons often produced in clandestine workshops that safeguard blacksmiths’ anonymity and safety, the ease of accessing them makes purchasing them frequently and at prices, four times cheaper than the industrially produced ones. Craft production of firearms in West Africa began centuries ago when iron work began in the region with the practice growing during and shortly after colonialism. Other elements which have fueled craft, according to the report, are anti-colonial struggles and civil wars as they drove the demand and provided the stimuli for technological advancement. In Nigeria, Awka, Anambra State, became a foaming hub for local craft production of firearms as a result of the Biafran war (1967-70). Quoting a research by Ubong Umoh on the making of arms during the Civil War and Augustine Ikelegbe on the dynamics of production, trading, use and control of crafts weapons and ammunitions, it said, “Weapons such as ‘hand grenades, cartridges, mines and guns’ used by anti-government armed groups were all locally-sourced. “The ensuing demand for weapons resulted in the Biafran government organizing blacksmiths into cooperatives for the production of arms and ammunition, explosives, and improvised explosive devices nicknamed ‘ogbunigwe’ (meaning ‘mass killer’), with the aim of increasing production quantity and speed, and ensuring steady access to weapons. “After the war, blacksmiths were considered a threat to security and peace in Nigeria because of their capacity to produce weapons, and the Federal Government disbanded them and drove them underground, while banning craft production.” Also, research shows that strong cultural ties to blacksmiths’ skills and the traditional weapons they produce, still exist. ‘Dane guns,’ which are used for ceremonial, ornamental and hunting purposes. “These types of firearms-which are symbols of power and prestige in traditional communities- are available throughout the country,” the report said. Elections, arms and the country Nigeria committed to strengthening borders to stop influx of illegal weapons Network to intensify campaign against small arms ahead 2019 polls