About 10,000 members of Accord party in Lagos State have defected into the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ibeju Lekki area of the state. The defectors who were led by a former Accord party chieftain, Engr. (Hon) Abiola Okanlawon Olowu were said to be former members of APC who because of grievances had once abandoned the party for Accord. Olowu said they chose to return to APC because they believed in the leadership of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the need to develop Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos state. “I have never believed I can sit with Asiwaju let alone having a discussion with him. Asiwaju asked: Olowu, will you return to APC and I answered YES in the affirmative and that’s why I am here today with my supporters,” Olowu said. The Executive Chairman of Ibeju-Lekki Local Government, Dr. Kemi Surakat welcomed the defecting Accord Party members. He said, it is good for all to work as a team other than being on separate missions. “I appreciate Engr. Abiola Olowu, Hon. Akeem Adekoya, Hon. Korede Ojomu and all the former leaders of Accord Party in Ibeju-Lekki LG and Lekki Local Council Development Area (LCDA)  who are noble persons for considering the development, progress and unity of communities above their interests,” Dr. Kemi Surakat said. Similarly, the Executive Chairman, Lekki LCDA, Barrister Mukandasi O. Ogidan saluted the decamping Accord members for “returning home” and appreciated the APC leaders who took this agreement to be a worthwhile. The Hon. Commissioner for Ministry of Local Governments and Community Affairs in Lagos State, Hon. Muslim Folami in his speech said the development has shown that Ibeju-Lekki politics is different from other areas of Lagos, such as Mushin, Ajegunle, among others because people relate as families. “That is why we can talk to ourselves and we listen to each other. So, the modalities here should be different from other parts of Lagos,” the Commissioner said. One of the APC chieftains, Chief Bode Oyedele said the programme is just for formality sake since much has been done already. He said in politics, no permanent enemy nor friend but permanent interest and power is never served a-la-carte. He said since creation of Lagos state, the state is governed as a result of contributions from different local governments of the state. Thus, Ibeju-Lekki needs to demand its quota and that is the reason for coming together for a larger percentage of votes in the forthcoming election. In attendance at the programme were Hon. T.O Shoniyi, Hon. Ogunlaja, Alhaji Tajudeen Oniwonlu, Alhaji Aje-Awa, Hon. Idowu Eletu, Mr Segun Bankole, Chief Tansiru, Hon. Ismail Badmus. PDP, Accord Party, others decamp to APC in Oyo Oyo Governorship: Accord party agrees to work with APC PDP bigwig,1000 Accord members join APC in Lagos