President Muhammadu Buhari has constituted a committee which will assess and submit a report on the current policies and projects of the government. The report is expected to serve as a detailed working document that would guide the incoming cabinet members on the direction of government regarding policies, programmes and projects. The committee is chaired by the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo  according to a statement by the Permanent Secretary, General Services Office (GSO) in the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Olusegun A. Adekunle. The Terms of Reference of the committee include to audit and determine the status of implementation of policies, programmes and projects either inherited or commenced by the out-going Administration; identify and highlight a residue of works and challenges that may militate against their successful implementation; and to prepare and produce a detailed working document among others. Members of the committee are Chief of Staff to the President, Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Minister of Budget and National Planning, Minister of Finance; Minister of Power, Works and Housing; Attorney General and Minister of Justice; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment and Minister of Transportation. Others are Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister of Water Resources, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, National Security Adviser; Permanent Secretary, Cabinet Affairs Office and Deputy Chief of Staff to the President who is also the secretary of the committee. The committee would be inaugurated on Friday by 3:00pm at the Vice President’s Conference Room.  …Buhari sets up inauguration committee Meanwhile, in a separate statement by Mr. Adekunle, the President Buhari also approved the constitution of the 2019 inter-ministerial presidential inauguration committee. The committee which will be inaugurated tomorrow by 5:00pm at the SGF Conference Room has “to plan, organize and execute all approved activities for the 2019 Presidential Inauguration. “It can also co-opt any organization(s) person(s) relevant towards the successful execution of the programme; document for posterity, all planned activities for the inauguration; and carry out any other assignment as may be required towards the successful implementation of the programme” as it Term of Reference (ToR). The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr. Boss Gida Mustapha is the Chairman of the committee, while the Permanent Secretary (Political and Economic Affairs Office) is the Secretary. Other members of the committee are Minister of Information and Culture, Minister of Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, FCT Minister, Minister of Defence, Minister of Health, Minister of Education, Minister of State (Aviation), APC National Chairman, Inspector General of Police, Director General (Department State Service), Brigade of Guards Commander, Permanent Secretary (State House) and Permanent Secretary (General Services Office).  Transition Committee to provide clear framework for smooth handover-APC JUST IN: Buhari constitutes new minimum wage committee FG promises to implement NHIS probe panel report