A former Nigerian President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo said he would not stop criticising President Muhammadu Buhari until he does “what is right.” Obasanjo who pointed out that criticism remains an integral part of democracy, said he had nothing personal against Buhari and his government. He was reacting to the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Aremu Gbadebo, who implored Obasanjo to play down attacks on the President upon clocking 82. The duo spoke at the 82nd birthday anniversary celebration of Obasanjo held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta. The first class Monarch who served as a military officer during the military administration of Muhammadu Buhari between 1983 and 1985, referred to Buhari as his boss. While describing Obasanjo as a warrior, Alake said: “At 82 years of age, I think you should keep your sword more rather than use it always.” But Obasanjo, in a swift reaction, told the Monarch that he remains Buhari’s boss, saying having served as President, he could criticise his government when the need arises. Obasanjo said “If I say anybody in government in Nigeria or any government for that matter is not doing well, let that government prove that it is well. It’s not anything personal. “So, Kabiyesi (referring to Alake of Egbaland) your boss, Buhari; there is nothing personal between me and him. Just as he is your boss, I am his boss, with all due respect. “Now, the point is that I have been in that position longer than any Nigerian will ever be there. That’s true. If any Nigerian comes in and have two terms, he will not have almost four years of military rule. So, I have been there longer than any Nigerian would ever be there. “So, when I say something, I know what I am talking about. Kabiyesi (Alake) anytime you say, “leave my boss alone,” I say “he is your boss”. But I am also his (Buhari) boss. So, you might also ask your boss (Buhari) to leave his boss alone or do what it right that his boss wants him to do.” The guest lecturer at the birthday celebration, who is a South African Freedom fighter, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, delivered a lecture titled “Colonialism, Apartheid, Freedom and South-Africa Rising”. Buthelezi, in his lecture, identified corruption as the biggest challenge facing the African continent. Buhari, Alake of Egba disengaged from military service same day, says Osinbajo Glamour as Alake of Egbaland marks 75th birthday Buhari, Osinbajo's wives, daughter storm Ogun rally