A former Ogun state governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel on Tuesday insisted that his departure from partisan politics stands, having committed 20 years of his life to what he labelled a “thankless process.” He also ruled out insinuations in some quarters that he had abandoned the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, saying “Atiku is different from PDP.” Daniel who was the Deputy Chairman of PDP Presidential Campaign Council (South) in the just concluded election, also served as Atiku’s Campaign Director General during the party’s primaries. Daily Trust recalls that Daniel had resigned from PDP and equally announced his departure from active politics in a letter dated March 14 and addressed to the PDP Chairman, Uche Secondus. However, OGD’s meeting with some of his loyalists on Sunday at his Asoludero residence in Sagamu, threw up the speculations of his possible defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In a terse statement which went viral on social media today, Daniel said he was clear about his position  and “there is no need to insinuate, speculate, extrapolate, anticipate or draw conclusions on my behalf.” His media aide, Steve Oliyide confirmed to Daily Trust that Daniel issued the statement. It reads: “I have not, will not and will never abandon Atiku. Atiku is different from PDP. I have resigned from PDP and lost interest in partisan politics having put in about 20 years of my life in a thankless process. I will commit my God-given resources to help the less privileged through my foundation and will contribute to the body of knowledge through our not for profit Political Academy. That will be a thankful process. “I will continue to support the political process in a non partisan manner. I am clear with my position, without any ambiguity. There is no need to insinuate, speculate, extrapolate, anticipate or draw conclusions on my behalf. I did not expect such a simple personal decision can generate such national discourse and for that I remain grateful to God. “I am however most grateful to all my friends and well wishers. The phones have not stopped ringing. All the advices are well taken. My very deep appreciation.” Atiku’s man, Gbenga Daniel, loyalists set to join APC Atiku's man, Gbenga Daniel, loyalists set to join APC in Ogun Why I quit partisan politics, by Gbenga Daniel