The House of Representatives has vowed to revisit the amended 2010 Electoral Act, which was rejected four times by President Muhammadu Buhari, last year, ahead the recently held general elections. House Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos) gave the hint, yesterday, when he led a delegation of All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmakers to brief newsmen on the outcome of the 2019 general elections. According to him, a wholesale review of the Electoral Act was necessary in order to address noticeable grey areas and imperfections in the recently conducted elections. He said although the elections were “largely free and fair, with no victor or vanquished,” there was always need for improvement and continuous reform, as no system was perfect. He further lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), APC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and individual candidates for their roles during the elections. The House leader, however, condemned those who perpetrated violence that led to loss of lives and property, including that of a lawmaker, Temitope Olatoye (ADP, Oyo). “The 2019 elections have come and gone, keenly contested and largely free and fair with no victor, no vanquished. We condemn those who perpetrated violence and regret loss of lives. “We will look at the Electoral Act wholesale. There is no perfect system anywhere, but we will continue to reform, and strive for perfection. The legislature is key to retooling the legal framework to that effect,” Gbajabiamila assured. He added that despite the hiccups that attended the electoral process and led to several inconclusive elections, the lawmakers were confident that INEC would do the needful within the stipulated time. On who becomes the next Speaker of the House of Representatives, the four-term lawmaker and a leading contender for the speakership, said the issue would be decided by the APC and the lawmakers themselves. Decrying the high casualty rate of incumbent lawmakers in the election, Gbajabiamila, however, assured that the House would use the remaining days in its legislative life to tackle the 2019 Appropriation Bill, Estimated Billing Bill, and other critical issues that touch directly on the lives of average Nigerians. 2019 Elections: Reps to revisit vetoed Electoral Act Senate Leader: No cause for alarm over Electoral Act Bill 2019 polls: PDP, APC draw battle line over Electoral Act