Former military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babaginda has called on the winner of the just concluded Presidential election to embrace the opponents in the contest in order to heal post-election wounds. In a congratulatory message to Buhari on Saturday in Minna, the former leader also advised former vice president, Atiku Abubakar to accept the outcome of the polls and work with the winner to move the country forward. IBB praised Buhari for subjecting himself to the democratic processes despite the turbulent terrain, pointing out the gesture was a clear testimony of Mr President’s believe in democratic ideals. “I wish to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on his re-election to lead Nigeria in the next four years. I have observed that, the electioneering campaign was very strenuous and the contest very keen. “That despite the turbulent terrain of politics, the President submitted and subjected himself to this process. Indeed is a clear testimony that he believes in the democratic process and ideals. “The newly elected president should heal the wounds of the heated campaign exchanges by embracing those who contested alongside with him. The President must resist the temptation to see them as enemies; not even opponents, but fellow compatriots who merely disagreed with him on how best to move our country forward,” he advised. The former leader also commended the audacious spirit and doggedness of the main opposition standard bearer, adding that despite losing the race, the contest shows that the former vice president has support base that cut across ethnic and religious lines. “Let me commend and convey my admiration to the other contestants for the office of president. “I was particularly impressed with the gallant and audacious spirit of the main challenger in the presidential race, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar GCON. I was not surprised that even though he lost the most exotic position of the land, his doggedness and pattern of support cut across ethnic, religious and regional lines that earned him the second position of the last Presidential election. ” I call on the former Vice –President Atiku Abubakar to close ranks and work with the winner of the election in an objective and constructive manner so that democracy will continue to thrive in our country at this crucial period of renaissance. IBB Congratulates Buhari, says Atiku's support cut across "ethnic, religious and regional lines" Atiku: I have been side-lined in APC Mama Taraba, Bindow dump Atiku, remain in APC