One of Nigeria’s most controversial entertainers, Charles Chukwuemeka Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy has admitted that the spokesman for President Muhammadu Buhari campaign organisation, Festus Keyamo, paid ‘heavy money’ to use his diss song against Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party,PDP. Atiku was the main challenger of President Buhari of the All Progressive Congress, APC in the 2019 election. Charly Boy, who is also the convener of a socio-political movement #OurMumuDonDo Movement that has led many protests against Buhari’s administration before the election, made the disclosure during an interview with RootsTV. The co-convener of #OurMumuDonDo Movement, Deji Adeyanju, who resigned from the movement on Wednesday, had accused Charly Boy of collecting money from the presidency during his (Deji) stay at Kano Central Prison. “When Keyamo came to discuss Deji’s matter, he heard my new song that I was working on…where I was dissing Atiku,” Charly Boy said in the interview. “I don’t care. But if you want to use my work, you pay for it.” “Of course, he paid for it. And they paid heavy money.” When asked how much the money was, Charly Boy admitted that the money was in “nine figures” mentioning no specific amount. Nine figures will represent any amount from 100 million (100,000,000) to nine hundred and ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine (999,999,999) The song, ‘Another Guy Man,’ was posted to YouTube on January 25. It has 6,693 views and 44 comments on Charly Boy’s channel as at Friday afternoon. Adeyanju on Wednesday claimed that he rejected offers of about $2 million made to him by the agents of the Nigerian government to quit opposing the government. “Not that we haven’t been offered money to compromise as well. Since 2017 till date, I have been offered over $2million to compromise but I refused. If I had, they wouldn’t have sent me to Kano Central Prison or tried to charge me for terrorism & other crimes,” he posted on Twitter. Adeyanju was arrested on December 13, 2018 and spent 78 days behind bars at the Kano Central Prison on murder charge – the same charge he was acquitted of in 2009 after spending four years in remand from 2005. Incidentally, he was represented by Festus Keyamo during the trial in 2005 till 2009 Keyamo in an interview with Premium Times in December, 2018 claimed that the police did not appeal the Kano State High Court verdict at the time (2009) because they were satisfied that Mr Adeyanju was indeed not involved in the killing as the prosecutor alleged.   Charly Boy, #OurMumuDonDo protesters hail Buhari''s return Buhari’s Health: Jim Iyke, Aisha Yesfu join #ResumeOrResign protest Charly Boy sues police, demands N500m