The Ekiti State command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has arrested a 52-year-old man, Dennis Agya Kiyeye, for allegedly impregnating his 15-year-old niece and attempting to murder her. According to the commandant of the NSCDC in the state, Mr Solomon Iyamu, Kiyeye allegedly defiled and impregnated the girl, simply identified as Gloria, at Ilupeju village, in the Gbonyin local government area of the state. Iyamu said the suspect had confessed to defiling his niece, who was said to have been living with him since 2013 after the demise of her mother in Benue State. The NSCDC chief said, “Kiyeye said he had been having carnal knowledge of Gloria since three years ago. The incest resulted in a first pregnancy in 2016, which was kept secret with the help of a quack midwife who assisted them to terminate the pregnancy. “He claimed that the pregnancy was jointly owned by him and one Kunle who happened to be the girl’s school mate in the village. He also explained that the girl later became pregnant for him again and due to the shame he had caused himself, he wanted to terminate her life in a nearby bush in the village.” Iyamu added that Gloria was, however, rescued by a good Samaritan who reported the act to the head of the Ilupeju community. He quoted the village head, Chief Adebisi Olaoye, as describing the suspect as a man of questionable character. Chief Olaoye, who confirmed that Kiyeye was arrested by villagers while attempting to kill the girl, promised to support the NSCDC on further investigations. Gloria said she was powerless to reject the sexual advances of her uncle, whom she claimed deflowered her. Any refusal to do so, she said, might make her suffer and go hungry as it was the uncle who was responsible for her feeding and upkeep. “He gave me shelter and was feeding me and any attempt to refuse his advances may result in hunger and punishment, and could deprive me of my school fees,” she said. She pleaded with non-governmental organisations and well-meaning Nigerians generally to come to her rescue as medical examination had shown she had a fibroid tumour growing along with the baby in her, which she feared might hinder the development of the foetus.  52-yr-old man impregnates 15-yr-old niece, attempts to murder her Impregnated 16 yr-old JSS 3 student gives birth in Niger Man arrested over kidnap, murder of 5-yr-old in Plateau