The National Working Committee (NWC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State and his Imo State counterpart Rochas Okorocha, allegedly for anti-party activities. The NWC also suspended the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Uguru Usani and the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu. The NWC would also issue a query to the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, over what it called glaring anti-party activities which greatly affected the fortunes of the party’s candidates in the recently-conducted Presidential and National Assembly elections in the state. A statement issued by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Isa Onilu, said the decision was reached yesterday at a meeting of the party’s NWC, presided by the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, at the National Secretariat, Abuja. The NWC also took a decision to recommend the expulsion of the suspended individuals to the National Executive Committee (NEC). The party said it had earlier written to the suspended governors on their anti-party activities, and several other steps were taken to ensure they desisted from taking actions that were inimical to the interests of the party and candidates. Governor Okorocha, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, reacting to his suspension, accused Oshiomhole of working to destroy the party. But the Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu, says he cannot be blamed by the APC for the failure of the party’s “unpopular National Assembly candidates” in the South East geo-political zone. Okechukwu, who reacted briefly yesterday to the report of his suspension by the APC NWC for anti-party activities, said he could not be blamed for the triumph of bigotry in Enugu State and South-East in general. He said “Our Comrade Chairman should not blame me for hoisting some unpopular National Assembly candidates for the APC in our zone. I’m at a loss as to how one contributed to the failure of his darling candidate, Mrs Juliet Ibekaku Nwagu in Egede, her hometown and Udi local government, her primary local council in the five that make up the senatorial district.” Amosun, Okorocha engaging in anti-party activities – APC APC suspends Amosun, Okorocha; recommends expulsion Niger gov to APC: Refund nomination fees to douse tension