From the days of Joseph Pulitzer, the renowned Father of Journalism to 1851 when The New York Times was founded by George Jones and Henry Raymond, and up to today,  a major task of the media, apart from holding leaders accountable, has been the facilitation and enthronement of good governance in human societies. It is with that in mind that today, I am  picking on seven Nigerian states, where I heavily recommend a second term for six serving governors, and a fresh term for one, as the electorates in 29 states file out this week Saturday to elect who governs their respective states for the next four years. Let’s go: I am starting with Senator Abdullahi Bayero Nafada, who is seeking a fresh term as governor of Gombe State. Though some people may choose to argue for political reasons, it remains an indisputable fact that one of the best state governors in Nigeria’s political history is Dr. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, who has been the governor of Gombe State for almost eight years now. For a state that could rightly be described as a mini-Nigeria and one of the most diverse religiously and culturally, governing Gombe State can simply not be an all-comers affair. APC could definitely be said to have the momentum shifting on its favour at the moment. What with the resounding victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the presidential election penultimate week. But even the president himself has been boldly telling the electorates to be wiser and not just vote on the basis of party affiliation. He has been emphasizing on the need to vote for credible leaders who will take their societies to the promised land. Many people do not know that a lot of the key achievements of the outgoing governor of Gombe have the hands of Senator Nafada fully on them. The people of Gombe are therefore advised to vote for the one and only man who will ensure the continuity and preservation of the shining legacies being bequeathed by Governor Dankwambo. For a state that is on the lower rung in all revenues accruing to it, Gombe cannot afford governance by trial and error. Bayero Nafada, a very credible and competent leader, is therefore Gombe’s best bet. From Gombe, we shall take a look at its next-door neighbour, Bauchi, where Barrister MA Abubakar has held sway for about four years now. Among Nigerian governors, it is difficult if anyone has faced more internal dissent from federal legislators of the state origin than this governor. But a mark of Barrister MA Abubakar’s excellent governance skills is his ability to weather the storm and not allow the many acts of provocation to distract him. Today in Bauchi, one of the finest examples of real foundation in education and agriculture have taken a firm root in Bauchi. Yet, for reasons ranging from the ridiculous to the absurd, some people are still hell-bent in hoodwinking the Bauchi electorates to vote out this governor, just for them to have unfettered access to the state treasury. In Adamawa, another neighbor to Gombe, Senator Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow has been redefining governance and insisting that with focused governance, his state must rank among the best in Nigeria. Sadly, he, too, like Gombe and Bauchi, is faced with paucity of resources. So he is taking things one at a time, so much that no state in Nigeria can today compete with him in terms of excellent road network. Governor Bindow  is doing that to facilitate trade and commerce in all books and crannies of Adamawa State and thereby removing a vast number of his people from poverty. The people of Adamawa must never make the mistake of allowing forces of darkness to derail this man. He has a lot and a lot in his kitty, which only a second term could fully reveal. And then to my good friend and big brother, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who has been a huge blessing to this country.  So much is he in love with his people of Sokoto State and their progress that he demoted himself from being Nigeria’s Number 4 Citizen to emerge as governor of that state about four years ago. Not a man given to frivolities, Tambuwal has today etched Sokoto on the global map, being a global citizen respected beyond the shores of Nigeria. Today, the governor has competed virtually all projects abandoned by his predecessor. Taking the credit means nothing to Tambuwal, provided the benefit will go to his people. Key infrastructures are being fully addressed, and even in the face of paucity of resources, Sokoto State civil servants have been enjoying one of the best deals in the Nigerian Federation. One of the major areas of focus for the Tambuwal Administration is leveraging on his deep international connections to draw real-time foreign investment to Sokoto. He tells everyone who cares to listen that his focus is lifting millions of his people out of poverty. At the local cum national level, he is partnering with the Dangote conglomerate to deepen agriculture and other investments in the state. I will not allow allegations against Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to deny me say the truth about this governor of Kano, Nigeria’s most populous state. Some critics believe Ganduje’s feud with his former political soulmate, Senator Kwanlwaso, is what forced him to be one of the highest achieving governors in Nigeria. As can be verified by any dispassionate mind, Ganduje’s projects are also some of the most qualitative, and unlike his predecessor, he is not given to executing white elephant projects. It also says a lot about the man’s strength of character that he did not, even for a moment, allow the controversy around him to shift his focus on launching Kano to unprecedented greatness. The good thing about democracy is its ability to allow for plurality of ideas. Definitely there are quality materials in other states as well. I only narrowed down to these seven states because I personally can vouch for the suitors seeking the hearts of their electorates to continue ensuring the best deal for them all. Gaya is the Deputy President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors ‘I should be commended for giving Gombe to PDP’ Gombe in the hands of Dankwambo ‘Dankwambo, not Goje, is PDP leader in Gombe’