The African Development Bank (AfDB), heads of 34 leading financial institutions covering Africa and other partners of the Africa Investment Forum (AIF) have reaffirmed their commitment to “scale up, speed up, and synergize” efforts to deliver transformative projects across the continent. A statement from AfDB yesterday quoted the Chief Executive Officer, Development Bank of Southern Africa, Patrick Dlamini, as saying: “The time has come for us to demonstrate leadership to the rest of the world that a lot is possible in Africa. The Africa Investment Forum provides the right platform to achieve this. To see that the inaugural Forum last year was able to raise the kind deals it did is mind-blowing. ” Ahead of the November 2019 event, the Bank announced two innovative products – an open digital marketplace known as ‘The Platform <https://platform.africainvestmentforum.com/>,’ to connect funders to projects and investment opportunities across Africa, and an Investment Tracker to ensure that investment commitments made on the Africa Investment Forum platform are closely monitored. “We need to make the Africa Investment Forum the accelerator of projects. Last year’s event was great and we want to build on that momentum,” Africa 50 Chief Executive Officer Alain Ebobissé said, stressing the need to collectively commit additional financial resources for project preparation, and legal support for African governments to better negotiate public private partnerships. Akinwumi Adesina, President of the African Development Bank, said the maiden edition of the Forum held in November 2018 exceeded expectations. “The 2018 Africa Investment Forum ended with 49 deals that secured investor interest worth US$ 38.7 billion-in just three days.” Adesina thanked the core partners for their strong support in making the inaugural forum a success, and that “working together as one remains the core principle of our partnership.” Africa Investment Forum strikes $208bn investment deals Africa Investment Forum exceeds expectations – Participants Africa Investment Forum