The senator representing Zamfara Central Kabiru Garba Marafa has urged the National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole to maintain his status as a leader, and not to allow pressure from some corrupt persons to change him. Reacting to Oshiomhole’s statement on a Channels Television’s programme ‘Hard Copy’, Marafa said “It’s quite unfortunate and disheartening to watch the hitherto respected comrade rubbishing his hard-earned name before the whole world. “Chief Oshiomhole performed creditably well during the party primaries, he led the party aright to the admiration of all, including those in the opposition parties. He aligned himself with the masses, against some state governors who assumed the position of the Almighty in their respective states. Why do you want change, my comrade?” Marafa wondered why a towering figure like Oshiomhole will want to diminish himself to a position of a liar like at this stage of his life.  He admonished Oshiomhole not to allow pressure from agents of darkness and evil doers, to push him to change his posture of trailing the path of honour to a dishonourable one. “What Oshiomhole said was nothing but a wicked lie that can neither stand moral nor legal scrutiny. “Records and documentary evidences are abound everywhere that APC did not conduct primaries in Zamfara state, due to the stubborn attitude of the state governor who threatened publicly to send Oshiomhole to the graveyard if dares him. “Oshiomhole at the peak of the controversy affirmed the fact that, no primaries was conducted in the media, his famous video of ” primaries are to be conducted not by state governments nor by state party chairmen but by the panels sent by the party’s NWC,” is still very much available on the net. “Equally available is INEC’s letter to him (Chief Oshiomhole) that they receive reports from their local office in Gusau that APC didn’t conduct valid primaries as at 12:am Sunday 7th October 2019. It was based on this fact that INEC said it wasn’t expecting candidates from (APC) and you Chief Oshiomhole responded by accepting the fact that APC didn’t conduct primaries but you did consensus! A simple google search will amplify these facts. “Let me also remind you chief that Yari in his characteristic ignorance sat in company of his state factional chairman of the APC and announced the results of his primaries live on channels television, the video is still very much available on the net. How Oshiomhole can succeed - Sen Marafa Zamfara protest: Marafa slams Yari over Oshiomhole Issues as Marafa backs INEC on Zamfara primaries tussle