Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has assured the people of Sokoto state that he would not be dictated to by anybody in his second term. He was allaying the fear generally raised in the state that he would be controlled by big shots of the party in the state. According to Tambuwal, “I will run a cabal-free government.” The governor made the assertion in a post-election interactive session with journalists at the Government House, Sokoto. He said that the victory figure of 342 would never escape his memory, attributing it to the will of God. “It is God’s work considering what happened during the election,” he said He added that he would work assiduously to justify the renewed confidence on his government by the people of the state. The governor also denied being called by the leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Governor of the state, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and the candidate of the party, Ahmed Aliyu to congratulate him. He extended a hand of fellowship to them, saying their support was needed in developing the state. While assessing his first tenure, Tambuwal said he had made significant achievements despite lean resources. Some of the achievements he reeled out were recorded in the health sector, education and women empowerment. He said that his government was the first in the history of the state to appoint three female commissioners, eight female Permanent Secretaries and three female counsellors in each of the 23 local government areas. He added that his government was spending N120 million on the procurement of water treatment chemicals monthly. On the problem of banditry bedevilling the eastern part of the state, he said they were working in collaboration with the Sultanate Council, community leaders and security agencies to address the problem. Tambuwal further refuted that the state government accounts had been frozen by EFCC, saying they only put their local government account under close monitoring and limited their withdrawal to only N50 million. Tambuwal’s biggest political gamble Pressure mounts on Governor Tambuwal to resign Sokoto: The most interesting of the inconclusive election