The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, has decried the use of thugs and other criminal elements by agents of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to cause trouble in the ongoing state Assembly election in the state and undermine the will of the people. The State Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo alleged, in a statement on Saturday in Yenagoa, that armed thugs loyal to the governor and PDP were on the rampage in a number of communities throughout the polls, rigging for the PDP and intimidating APC members. He said: “Just on Thursday, we alerted the Bayelsa public to an evil plot by the PDP to unleash mayhem during today’s state Assembly election with a sole purpose of intimidating the opposition and impose its candidates in various constituencies of the state. “We also warned about his signature tactic of trying to cover up his nefarious acts with smear campaign and fake news against our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “As observed in today’s election, thugs sponsored by PDP in the state went on the rampage in several constituencies of the state, carting away electoral materials, thumb printing them for PDP, and deploying sundry acts of intimidation against APC members and others opposed to the governor and his party. “In Odioma, Brass Local Government Area, PDP led thugs carted away all the electoral materials, our members were chased out of the community and PDP had a field day with the thumb printing of ballot papers. “In Ogbolomabiri-Nembe, the hometown of the deputy governor, his younger brother, Gabriel Jonah and thugs threatened and chase APC agents out of the community. “In Sagbama, where Dickson comes from, our members were in hiding for the most part of Saturday for fear of being harmed by the governor and his armed thugs.” Governor Seriake Dickson, while casting his vote at Toru-Orua unit 5, Ward 2, had accused the Military and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials of colluding with former Governor of the state, Timipre Sylva, to churn out fake results in the state House of Assembly election. Dickson, while speaking with Journalists shortly after voting, said that the federal agencies deployed to the state were executing a premeditated plan to foist an unpopular political, party on the state. Don't militarise S/South to suppress voters, PDP tells Buhari, APC APC, PDP trade blames over destruction of campaign structures 18 NEW