Hon. Mai Mala Buni is the Yobe State governor- elect. Until recently, he was the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview, he speaks on the peaceful elections in Yobe State, the concept of continuity and consolidation as the policy thrust of his upcoming administration and commitment to explore, exploit and attract federal presence to the state. Yobe had a peaceful and rancour free elections at all levels unlike what obtained in some states. What is responsible for this? In Yobe State, we enjoyed peaceful electioneering period and basically, I salute the political maturity of politicians and their supporters throughout the election period. This has contributed immensely to the credible polls in the state. Similarly, I want to state without fear of contradiction that the focused, strong, solid, calculated and brilliant political leadership of His Excellency, Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam, gave the state a sense of direction for free, fair, credible, transparent and peaceful elections across the state. The governor also exhibited strong and focused leadership qualities that made people to see election into public office as service to the people. Therefore, it requires no aggression and violence to secure public office to serve the people. Thirdly, the massive transformation recorded by the Gaidam administration in every part of the state further endeared him to the electorate. He has done so much for the state in terms of infrastructural development and social welfare like never seen before in the history of the state. No one can take this fact away from him. In fact, he is likened to Mao Tse Dung of China. He has given the people a true sense of belonging and therefore enjoys massive support and respect from the people. The people including the opposition always feel there was no reason to be unnecessarily aggressive or politically violent. So, in summary, the commitment and political direction proffered to the state by Governor Ibrahim Gaidam made the elections very easy, peaceful and successful. Yobe remains on the same page with the party at the centre, how do you hope to take this advantage to benefit the state? As a state that suffered gross neglect from previous federal governments up till 2015, we will meticulously present our areas of needs that are capital intensive; that are beyond the capacity of the state government. We will take this advantage to pursue such projects to provide employment opportunities and promote economic growth of the state. Don’t forget that Yobe State is one of the leading states that provided highest votes to the party and President Muhammadu Buhari. We therefore have the moral ground to approach the Federal Government which we contributed to its success to help us achieve certain projects. Again, Yobe was short-changed in federal appointments, and luckily enough, our governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam did a lot in remedying the situation. Insha Allah we shall vigorously continue with the giant stride to pursue what rightly belongs to us for our people to benefit. In the years to come, Yobe state will be adequately represented and its interests would be protected and promoted at the national level. Governor Gaidam’s political influence saw your emergence as APC’s governorship candidate and now governor elect. Why have the people invested so much confidence in him? For any follower of events in the state, the answer is self-explanatory. Governor Gaidam is undoubtedly the father of modern Yobe. The governor enjoys the people’s trust because the people have practically seen Yobe state working. His administration has impacted greatly and positively on the lives of the people and that is why he enjoys such support and trust. When our party, APC, was approaching the primaries, stakeholders in the 178 political wards, 17 local government areas and the state working committee, willingly entrusted him with the responsibility to produce a credible and competent successor among the aspirants who will consolidate the gains recorded in the state. It was also the resolution of the stakeholders that his choice will be their choice. So, you can appreciate the faith the stakeholders have in the governor who consulted widely and committed the choice of a successor to prayers for divine intervention, guidance and choice. Eventually Governor Gaidam nominated me as his preferred candidate but that did not foreclose the contest, as nomination was still left open for those with interest in candidates other than me, to participate in the scheduled primaries. And in the spirit of democracy, four of us contested the primary and I was elected as the party’s flag bearer. I was subsequently supported by the other aspirants. It was a family affair and we approached the election with a united front which translated into the massive victory against the PDP candidate. I also want to believe that the people have seen the competence in me to continue, consolidate and expand the achievements in the state. The unanimous acceptance that greeted my nomination and the landslide victory in the governorship election is a reflection of the people’s trust in our capacity to meet their dreams and aspirations. Suffice it to say that our participation in politics for such a long time is basically driven by our desire to promote good governance, serve the people and to add value to their lives. After your declaration as the governor elect, in your acceptance speech, you emphasized that yours will be a government of continuity and consolidation. What exactly are you referring to? Yobe State as you know was bedevilled by protracted security challenge and lean financial resources. However, His Excellency, Governor Gaidam, prudently managed the state resources to support security agencies in the fight against insurgency. The state under his leadership recorded unprecedented healthcare delivery. For the first time, Yobeans had accessible and affordable healthcare services delivered to their doorsteps. Today, the state has proudly improved primary healthcare services in the rural areas, secondary health institutions have been expanded and upgraded to meet the needs of the growing population. His administration introduced free drugs programme for expectant mothers, children and victims of accident across the state. This is in addition to the establishment of a state Teaching Hospital equipped with state-of-the-art equipment. As we speak now, there is growth in medical tourism to the state. Government has also established a college of medical sciences at the state university to produce adequate manpower to provide services in the improved health institutions across the state. Similarly, government has done so much in education, agriculture, road construction, women and youth empowerment etc. If you look at the area of payment of salary, pension and gratuity, Yobe  is a leading state and role model in Nigeria. Government had never reneged in payment of salaries and pension while, gratuity has been paid to retired or deceased civil servants up to December 2018 and the state is not indebted. So, if you look at all these and more, you will appreciate that the Gaidam administration has laid a solid foundation for us to expand and build upon and that explains our slogan of consolidation and continuity. We will be guided by his prudence of state resources to meet the hopes and aspirations of our people. Like I said at various fora, I represented the state with high sense of responsibility while serving as national secretary of our party, I pledge to do the state proud as governor. There are endless examples where governors fall apart with their god-fathers as soon as they settle in their offices. Are you not worried? Allah is our surety, we shall have a government of continuity, consolidation. Ours would be a government that would expand the legacy policies and programmes of the Gaidam administration to further improve the lives of our people. We shall tap from his wealth of experience and guidance to effectively serve our people and take the state to higher greatness. In other words, the new government would be an extension of the Gaidam administration and to improve on these achievements for a greater Yobe State which is our collective project. We are very lucky that together with all the members of National Assembly from Yobe State who were elected under the platform of the APC, Governor Gaidam who is now a senator-elect would extend the frontiers of opportunities for our people at the national level. What is your call to the people of Yobe state? I want to honestly appreciate the good people of Yobe State for ensuring our victory at the polls. Like I said during my acceptance speech, the elections are now over, we should come together as a people to work for the betterment of our state and people. We must avoid wasting precious time on rumour mongering. Government has a large space that can give everyone the opportunity to contribute his quota to the development of the state. We should collectively focus on issues that would move the state forward and improve the lives of our people. We would not honour nor accept distractions. Gossip merchants have no business in Yobe - Governor elect Observers hail INEC, declare Yobe gov’ship poll credible Observer okays Yobe guber, assembly polls