A nude video alleged to be of Nasarawa deputy speaker and Senator-elect, Godiya Akwashiki, has gone viral. The first of five images shows the lawmaker in a 16-second clip being molested after he was stripped naked. The second shows him seated naked in a car, with only a torn singlet on. The third picture shows him seated on a floor, also naked. Another shows him in a hospital bed, with two people by his side. However, in the video, the lawmaker was hit several times by two people, while he repeatedly said, “Sorry”. But they produced a belt and folded his arm backward, and started to bind him. And a voice in the background kept saying, “Give him water”. In all the videos and still images, he was shown nude without underwear, except one in which he had a singlet on However, two of the people who beat him were visible in the clip: one in a red T-shirt, the other in yellow. The Deputy Speaker, who represents Akwanga in the Nasarawa State House of Assembly (NSHA)  won election to represent Nasarawa North in the Senate at the February 23 National Assembly election. It was alleged that the lawmaker was arrested with a married woman in a hotel in Maitama, Abuja, but the woman was not shown in the video or in the still picture. A source said the Nasarawa State government convened an emergency meeting on Saturday over the video that went viral. When contacted, the mobile number of the lawmaker Akwashiki was switched off, but it was reported that his house was filled with sympathizers in the evening when he returned to Nasarawa from Abuja. Officials of the Nasarawa information ministry and the senator-elect’s APC party have not responded to Daily Trust enquiries. Director-General of media and strategy to the State Governor, Yakubu Lamai and the Nasarawa State Police PPRO did not reply the SMS sent to them as of the time of wiring this report. But police in the FCT confirmed that the case was reported but said the lawmaker was not in police custody. Spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said, “We are investigating the matter.” Race for NASS Leadership Hots Up Dogara’s emergence as speaker and the ‘coup’ against PDP National Assembly leadership: Saraki, Dogara win as APC rejects outcome