The Petroleum Tankers Drivers, (PTD) branch of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, (NUPENG) has appealed to the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to rescind his decision to contest the outcome of last weekend presidential election won by President Muhammadu Buhari. In the result announced by the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) Professor Mahmood Yakubu, Buhari, the APC candidate, scored total votes of 15, 191, 847 to defeat Alhaji Atiku Abubakar who polled 11, 262, 978. The PDP candidate has since disclosed his intention to challenge the result of the election at the tribunal. But National Chairman of the Petroleum Tankers Drivers (PTD) branch of NUPENG, Otunba Oladiti Salimon urged the ex-VP to reverse his decision, in a statement issued in Abuja, advising the main opposition party to take advantage of Buhari’s pledge to run an inclusive government as very reassuring. The NUPENG boss expressed concern that threats in certain quarters to form a parallel government was inimical to peace and further admonished all political actors to work for national cohesion and unity. The statement read in part: “We join other peace loving Nigerians and friends of the country to call for unity, peace and order. We are also committed to the indivisibility of the country and dissociate ourselves from plans and orchestration to be used for violence or mass action. We restate our confidence in the Nigerian judicial system and hope that it will serve as a neutral arbiter in the event that cases relating to the electoral exercise are brought before it.” “We must be reminded that Nigeria is our only country and do all within our capacity to keep it peaceful. We will support efforts in this regard and once again persuade our political actors to work for national cohesion and unity.” The Union called on President Buhari not to disappoint Nigerians who voted for him for a fresh mandate. “A lot still needs to be done in the areas of provision of critical infrastructure to stimulate economic growth, provision of jobs for the army of unemployed youth and security of the average Nigerian.” Buhari’s Victory: ACPN wants government of national unity Fuel scarcity: NUPENG asks FG to revamp refineries, depots Petroleum Tanker Drivers partner Army to fight extortion