The president, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed,  has disclosed that 60 per cent of jobs will be restored through the processing of local raw materials to produce sugar in Nigeria. Engr. Ahmed, who stated this while fielding questions from newsmen at the press conference to herald the 4th edition of Nigeria Raw Materials Expo (NME) and 5th of the Nigeria Raw Materials Expo (NIRAM), said that would be achieved based on the positive growth of backward integration. “There have been positive developments in the backward integration. In the last two or three years, there have been positive investments in actual sugar cultivation. At least three major companies are going into sugar large-scale production. “That is a backward integration; in the past we import this sugar in the raw form outside country and that is where 60 per cent for the job creating process for this industry takes place. So by actually doing it here, it means we are bringing back those jobs here,’’ he said. However, he lamented that manufacturers have not leveraged fully on the use of technology to improve their efficiencies, saying that has led to low output. Engr. Ahmed explained that that threw up the need for this year’s expo themed ‘Optimizing Value Chain Towards Growth and Competitiveness in Manufacturing Sector’ slated to hold March 12-14, adding that it will help bridge the knowledge gap in the area of maximising technology. “Technology is changing rapidly and in Nigeria, we are promoting the use of more of local materials and of course machinery products are more efficient. So we are creating opportunities for all manufacturers to now improve their efficiency and productivity and prices as well. “This is because if they improve their efficiencies, prices will come down and of course it is only when this happens on continuous basis that the economy will continue to grow,” he said. Also at the event, the manager, Clarion Events, Mr. Joseph Oru, revealed that there will be 100 manufacture ring CEOs in attendance at the Manufacturing Partnership For African Development segment.  ‘Why Nigeria is not producing enough sugar’ Dangote moves to end sugar import as N166bn initiative takes off Nigeria consumes less sugar than South Africa  –Clark