With the restoration of Kainji and Jebba Hydro Power Plants (HPP) to 922 megawatts (MW), the operator has said it is positioned for the international electricity market. Revamping Nigeria’s hydros Kainji and Jebba plants are situated on the Niger River 100 kilometres apart in Niger State. They were taken over by Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL) in November 2013. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) led by the Director General, Mr Alex Okoh and BPE’s Director of Power, Yunana Malo, were at the plants recently to see the reforms since they were privatised. The Managing Director of MESL, Engr. Lamu Audu, who received the delegation said both plants can now generate 922MW, way higher than the 582MW capacity they met in 2013. Mr Audu said the Kainji plant was commissioned as Nigeria’s first Hydro Power Plant (HPP) in 1968 while Jebba plant began operation in 1983 but was commissioned in 1985 by General Muhammadu Buhari. The plants are cascaded 100 kilometres apart with Kainji dam situated on the upstream of Jebba. While the plants have a combined capacity of 1338.4MW, Kainji has installed capacity of 760MW and Jebba 578.4MW. Giving a breakdown of the plants, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mr Jose Villegas, said they have 14 turbines out of which Kainji has eight installed units and Jebba six units. On the strategic role of the hydropower plants to the Nigerian national electricity grid, Mr Audu said Kainji supports the grid frequency because it can run on low load, especially in restoring the grid during a system collapse. Buttressing this, Mr Villegas also said, “In Kainji, we can go as low as 5MW to zero but in Jebba, the minimum dip is 75MW. We have explained to the National Control Centre (NCC) [under the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)] about the design of Jebba plant when they often say we should ramp down. They are beginning to understand that now. “Presently, the available power generation capacity of MESL at both plants is 922MW with nine units operational,” he said. Managing Director of MESL, Engr. Audu added that from the 922MW available capacity, Kainji plant delivers 440MW while Jebba delivers 482MW. A record obtained on the generation history of the plants shows that they have hit 5 million megawatts (MW) in five years. From the breakdown, Kainji and Jebba generated 3.157m (MW) into the grid in 2014. This rose to 3.808m (MW) in 2015 and further reached 5.454m (MW) in 2016. The energy generation grew to 5.503m (MW) in 2017 but declined to 5.277 million (MW) in 2018. Mr Villegas said the company installed a satellite-based Inflow Forecasting System since 2017 that predicts water level on the Niger River. He noted that the prediction showed low level of black flood (water level during the dry season) in 2018 leading to the lower generation. “But this year, the black flood is good because we still see enough water intake unlike it was in March last year,” Villegas said. Addressing the challenges for MESL, Mr Audu said, “There are accumulated unpaid invoices of N72bn receivables as at March 11, 2019 in the market; it does not include capacity charge and if there is to be an interest on these debts.” He noted further that the continuous ramp down on power generation requests from the Independent System Operator (ISO) due to energy load rejection affects the plants’ turbines and is discouraging more investments. While urging BPE to address the load rejection issue by Distribution Companies (DisCos), Audu said BPE should consider converting the payment of concession fee by MESL from dollar to naira. MESL’s General Counsel (Company Secretary), Mrs Atinuke Taiwo, said the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) pays the plants’ invoices in naira and that it was difficult to access foreign exchange (forex) at official exchange rates. Operator eyes foreign market MESL boss, Mr Audu, said the low power ramp down design of Kainji Plant has put it on a vantage position for power traded in the West African Power Pool (WAPP). But stated also that the earlier constraints remain the firm’s limitation. “We are trying to encourage the board to do this expansion to target the international market through the West African Power Pool (WAPP). It is a serious issue that needs to be addressed if not, we cannot go anywhere,” Audu said. Mr Audu noted that the plants’ units are above 95 per cent available to the international customers they currently serve. It is learnt that Niger and Benin Republics are connected to the grid from Nigeria. He revealed the WAPP plan to build a transmission line that will serve for countries including Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso and that the plants could sell energy to those countries. Mr Villegas on his part said the firm will raise the energy availability to international customers to 96 per cent this year. MESL lifts communities with N1bn projects To develop host communities across Borgu, Jebba/Bida, Yauri and Kontagora emirates, MESL created the Mainstream Foundation in 2016 and dedicates one per cent of its gross revenue to it. It has executed 190 projects between 2016 and 2018 worth over N1 billion as its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), records from the foundation headed by the Executive Director, Abdullahi Siraj show.  The highest was in 2018 when it executed 96 projects. The foundation delivered 61 projects in 2017 and 33 projects in 2016. BPE gives pass mark The Director General of BPE, Mr Alex Okoh, commended the MESL management for what he described as excellent in terms of investments in recovering turbines, generators, energy delivery capacity and other advanced facilities at the plants. He said: “We are quite impressed at what we see. We are not where we should be in terms of the privatisation agreements but we can see credible efforts towards delivering on that path.” Mr Okoh said with such improvement, the Federal Government has no business in doing power business but to provide the enabling environment for the private sector to drive the electricity supply industry. Okoh said BPE was working with the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to return the power sector to commercial viability soon. On the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of MESL, he said, “Your CSR framework is very impressive. A total 190 initiatives in five years is very commendable and shows that you care about your community.”    Why power supply remains poor despite increased generation Mainstream raises Kainji, Jebba capacity to 922MW, decries N72bn energy debt Mainstream raises Kainji, Jebba  capacity to 922MW, decries N72bn energy debt