The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Sokoto state has alleged that its mandate for the state governorship was stolen saying that it will reclaim it. “The APC is extremely optimistic that the stolen mandate would be retrieved at the Gubernatorial Election Tribunal, which is expected to commence sitting in Sokoto soon,” the state APC chairman, Alhaji Isa Sadiq Achida, has said. Speaking with party supporters, he said “the recent governorship elections were marred by myriad of dastardly flaws and electoral offences like vote buying, over voting, ballot box snatching and stuffing, as well as intimidation, non-use of card reader machines, duplication of votes and outright disenfranchisement of thousands of voters across the state, among others.” Achida said “Governor Aminu Waziiri Tambuwal lacks the moral audacity to continue to euphorically cling to the seat, as he knows he was never elected by the people of the state.” He alleged: “There were many glaring infractions and violations of the Electoral Act 2010, as amended, the nation’s constitution, as well as the Electoral Laws of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Similarly, there were several other acts of pre and post election violence, intimidation, flagrant misuse of public funds to induce voters, compromise by some electoral officials and the various security agencies,” he added. According to the APC chairman, “the massive and colossal votes cast for our candidates, at all levels, including President Muhammadu Buhari, showed that the people love and cherish the APC and it remains the party to beat.” He dismissed allegations that it used the prowess of some federal agencies, during the 2019 governorship polls, against the PDP and Governor Aminu Tambuwal. “Nobody had used the powers or prowess of any federal agency, rather the teaming supporters of the party and the electorate state-wide had cast their votes massively for the APC candidates, at all levels.” He described the allegations as unsubstantiated, inefficacious , and ineffectual. Post polls: Security agencies urged to halt attacks by political opponents We will reclaim our stolen votes in Akwa Ibom – Buhari Buhari: We’ll reclaim our mandate in Akwa Ibom