The concept of corporate social responsibility is not something new. What is new is that it is becoming a more crucial part of business practices. Critical to the growth and success of businesses, companies should contribute to the good and benefit of the society. As consumers increasingly demand more accountability from the firms they do business with, companies have recognized that aligning social responsibility initiatives with their business model can help them build a sustainable competitive advantage in the marketplace. Undoubtedly, with the rapid economic growth of the FCT with a sudden influx of Nigerians from all parts, infrastructure became overstretched due to rapid population growth and absence of maintenance culture. It is to this end that an Abuja-based real estate development company, Cosgrove Investment Limited, constructed a 1.5km access road to its estate located opposite Maitama Ministers Hill, Abuja. Giving reasons for the project, the Chief Executive Officer, Cosgrove, Mr Umar Abdullahi said his organisation “constructed the road in exercise of its firm commitment to corporate social responsibility,” adding that apart from providing all requisite infrastructure within the estate, the organisation also embarked on provision of off-site infrastructure to add value to the community. He said availability of access roads was crucial to development of commerce in human society. These he said were among factors that inspired the construction of the access road. “If you launch a social bond aiming to create or maintain development in economically disadvantaged communities, you have to be able to report your results on that front,” he said, adding that “Cosgrove is not only interested in financial returns but in performance as well.” Institutional stakeholders of the Nigerian built environment have commended and unanimously agreed that the execution of capital intensive projects such as roads will add value to properties in the vicinity. National President of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Tpl Lekwa Ezutah, said the initiative will make it easy for residents to access the area, a factor which, he noted, will improve the development of commerce in the area. “There is no doubt that a developer who provides access road to his estate has done well because the effort will benefit the community,” he said, adding that the gesture will not go unappreciated by the community. Indigenous to Nigeria, Cosgrove is the construction industry giant which took the lead to develop the first set of super-smart estates in Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory. The company has commenced the production of 500 smart homes in four smart estates within the FCT, with each home featuring the latest innovations in home automation, security and construction technique. Discussing the development, President of the Council for Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Engr Kashim Ali, said it was a rare gesture of goodwill, especially that only few estates would take it upon themselves to develop good roads, adding that developers that decide to provide roads as efforts in Corporate Social Responsibility must not fall below standard as has been done by Cosgrove. Similarly, the National President of the Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Bldr. Kenneth Nnabuife Nduka, has commended Cosgrove saying that “developers who go the extra mile to develop access roads to estates have done well because that will add value to other houses in the area, not only their estates.” He said the provision of access roads is supposed to be the responsibility of government. According to him, “Nigerians pay taxes, people living in homes also pay ground rent to government,” adding that government owes Nigerians the responsibility of providing infrastructure needed to drive the implementation of housing projects by estate developers and private home builders. The NIOB president called on government to restore the site and services scheme which involved the mapping-out of estates while roads and utilities are channeled to the road to make it functional. He said: “Because the scheme makes the road functional, developers could easily access their estates,” adding that if restored, “it would help to plan the environment in such a way that projected services requirement could be identified and provided for.” While saying that the scheme makes it easy for developers to access their estates, and adding great value to landed properties in the location, he explained that if the scheme is not restored, there would be random approach to services delivery which is not in the best of interest of development control. Discussing the development, Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), who is also CEO, Development Planning and Management Consultants (DPMC), Tpl Onibokun Abimbola, agreed that provision of offsite infrastructure by Cosgrove is a commendable effort that will add great value to the worth of housing in the vicinity. He also encouraged industrialists across sectors of the Nigerian economy to take a clue from Dangote Cement and Cosgrove Investments, who are able to execute beneficial projects to communities that host their establishments, saying it also adds value to the products of their organisations, cement and homes respectively. Abimbola, who is a Fellow of NITP said: “Cosgrove and Dangote share similar ideology in terms of provision of road infrastructure that link their establishments to the society in exercise of Corporate Social Responsibility.” He said Dangote has almost finished constructing the road linking Obajana Cement Factory to the developed outlets of the area. Cosgrove set to boost FCT real estate market bUSINESS Brains & Hammers receive Abuja housing show award