29-year-old Adenike Adebowale, a graduate of English and Literary Studies from Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti is the CEO Adenike Adebowale Collection (AAC). With this, she found a way to reach the heart of the less privileged. When did you start your fashion business? I learnt tailoring from my siblings in 2010 while waiting to gain admission into the university. Though I was not so serious about it because I didn’t know I will someday adopt it as my source of livelihood. So, after graduating in 2016, I brought out my old machine and started all over again. I started modelling some of my outfits I made myself just for the fun of it. I was not making dresses for people or for sale but I started the business angle in 2017 and so far it’s been awesome. What motivated you to see it as a business? My motivation into starting a business is the push to be an independent woman. The joy of being independent is a great one. In 2013, after my National Diploma I enrolled for a catering class which I did for one year along with my IT. I also learnt beads making in 2015 but still didn’t do it for long. Today, I am grateful to God for showing me the way to go. Another motivation is the zeal of giving to the less privileged. I love to see people happy. Hence, part of the proceeds from the brand goes to the less privileged in some rural communities around the FCT. How are you leveraging on the social media marketing? Social media, especially Instagram has been a blessing to me. I am into fashion so I study what my audience wants to see on my page. So, I take pictures of me wearing my designs and post them on my page indicating the prices and sizes available and this attracts my clienteles. I had just 500 followers in 2017 when I started but today, I have over 24,000 followers on Instagram. What are your words to young entrepreneurs? There is nothing as interesting as having a little money of your own. Family members will fail you, my uncle did, friends will neglect you but a little money of your own will lift you up when the need arises. Wake up, pray and work hard.  This is my simple yet deep advice. I have learnt to persevere in business says Young CEO, Titilope I’ve learnt that patience, persistence pay for start-ups — Clothier, Amina I thought juggling business and architecture would be impossible — Fashion designer