A Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has accused the presidency of holding a meeting with the presidential candidates of 71 political parties who participated in the February 23 election and bribing them with huge sums of money to prevail on the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who felt cheated to stop his planned court action. The spokesman of CUPP and National Chairman of the Action Peoples Party (APP), Chief Ikenga Ugochinyere, said in a statement on Monday that millions of Naira was spent so that the 71 candidates would called for a press conference where they would ask Atiku to concede defeat and forget the idea of challenging the outcome of the poll in court. The CUPP also alleged that groups like the NANS, NYCN and socio-cultural youth groups like Arewa Youths, Ohanaeze youths and Odua youths were also penciled down for financial mobilization so as to get them all to march and ask Atiku not to go to court. The CUPP appealed to President Buhari to stop “wasting the nation’s resources” in a bid to achieving his personal political  ambition. “The Coalition of United Political Parties is in possession of the information of a meeting hosted by the Attorney General of the Federation with some presidential candidates of political parties particularly those who mortgaged their interests for a fee wherein the Attorney General agreed on behalf of the Presidency that each candidate would receive the sum of N40million Naira only and would attend a joint press briefing where they would collectively ask the rightful winner of the election Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to accept defeat and not go to court. “Opposition political parties are in possession of detailed information that in their desperate bid to force President Muhammadu Buhari on the country despite his abysmal performance during the February 23 presidential election, some government officials led by the Attorney General have started moves to compromise some political parties and presidential candidates. “We learnt authoritatively that the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, is spearheading this move meant to force opposition consensus candidate in the election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to accept the result and stop his plan which is already at advanced stage to contest the result in court. “Malami has already held series of meetings with chairmen, secretaries and presidential candidates of these  political parties that participated in the election. “If indeed they are convinced that President Buhari won the election as they want the world to believe, why are they desperate to buy political parties into asking Atiku to drop the idea of going to court? “We make bold to say that no amount of pressure from sponsored political parties or groups will make the PDP presidential candidate jettison his desire to approach the court to retrieve his stolen mandate. “Let the political parties that have resolved to sell their birthright for a pot of porridge also know that we are watching and history will not judge them right if they decide to collaborate with enemies of democracy to continue to subvert the will of Nigerians. “Having failed in their earlier bid to hire some women in the Federal Capital Territory to march on the streets and demand that Alhaji Atiku should not go to court, the next move is to gather presidential candidates,” Ugochinyere said. Atiku’s political maths CUPP condemns trial of CJN, alleges APC plans to manipulate 2019 elections Re: The many PDP myths