Ahead of the governorship election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State has lost prominent members including Mohammed Sani-Sidi, former Director General, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that among those who dumped the party were former commissioners, legislators, permanent secretaries, local government chairmen and party officials. Already, Sani-Sadi had returned his PDP membership card to the party’s ward chairman in Unguwar Sarki, Kaduna. NAN further reports that those who dumped the PDP had not indicated the party they will support in the upcoming election. A statement issued on his behalf by a close confidant, Ahmed Maiyaki, on Sunday in Kaduna, indicated that those who dumped the PDP did so because there was no genuine inclusiveness in the running of the party. Maiyaki said the ex-NEMA boss in his letter of resignation said: “Since the party’s primaries held last year, characterized by manipulations, impunity, lack of internal democracy and intimidations of party delegates, the party’s leadership at the state or the candidate has failed to genuinely engage all aspirants towards consultation and genuine reconciliation, an important task that would have helped the party forge ahead. “Even more worrisome is the mutual mistrust that exists between the party leadership, the gubernatorial candidate and some of its members and above all the failure to showcase any meaningful blueprint and capacity on how to govern the state when voted into power. “It is based on these reasons and after due consultation with my political associates across the 23 local government areas, l decided to resign my membership of the party henceforth.” Maiyaki listed other prominent politicians who left the PDP to include Mr Peter Adada, former Deputy Speaker, Kaduna State House of Assembly, Rabiu Bako and Nasiru Damau, former Commissioners, Kabiru Ballah, former PDP State Secretary, Sani Shahada, former legislator, Aliyu Saleh Ramin Kura, former Council Chairmen Magaji Sadiq and Abdulaziz Makama. Others are Ashiru K. Bomo, Sani Rabiu Bako, Joe Machu, Alhaji Adamu Kagarko, Bala Ahmed, Umar Farouq Kafanchan, Shehu Tafarki, Rufai Mustapha Ango among others. Maiyaki said over 30,000 members of the Sani-Sidi Campaign Steering Committee and some executive members of the party at the Local Government and Ward levels have begun the process of resigning their membership of the PDP.(NAN)/ Ex-NEMA boss joins Kaduna guber race Ex Kaduna PDP gov’ship aspirant dumps party over mistrust Kaduna 2019: Sidi submits governorship form, pledges to run decent campaign