The All Progressives Congress (APC), in Oredo ward 01, Oredo local government of Edo State, has suspended the former governorship aspirant of the party, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, indefinitely for alleged anti-party activities during the presidential and National Assembly elections. Gen. Airhiavbere contested the governorship election with former governor Adams Oshiomhole in 2012 on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform and also contested as aspirant with Governor Godwin Obaseki in 2016 on the APC platform. A statement signed by the ward chairman, Felix Ehigiegba, secretary, Edward Oviawe, and others said Gen. Airhiavbere was suspended at an enlarged APC leadership meeting for supporting the opposition party’s candidates against the APC during the election after he was found guilty by an investigative panel. They alleged that Gen. Airhiavbere on the election day deliberately withheld tags and other party tools meant for agents and APC members thereby hindering their movement on the field. Responding, retired Gen. Airhiavbere described the allegation as a gang-up by the party’s leaders to discourage those seen as threat in 2019. “Definitely, it has to do with the 2019 governorship election in the state. This is a sinister movement against those perceived to be a threat. It is a case of let us take down the heavyweights, let us take them down now. That is politics, but that is not democracy. “There are laid down procedures for suspension. It is supposed to be from the ward and not to learn about it from the press. Nobody invited me, nobody discussed anything with me or that I failed to show up. “It is a case of calling the dog a bad name to hang it. I didn’t contest. So, why should I be singled out? I was not funded to lead any campaign, neither did I hold back any campaign money. There must be a strategic calumny to discourage me from contesting,” he said. Also reacting, the APC publicity secretary, Chris Azebamwan, said ward executives lacked the constitutional power to suspend party members. The “Ward can only investigate and recommended such act to the state executive. We do not have prior knowledge of the purported suspension,” Azebamwan said. APC suspends former Edo governorship aspirant over anti party activities 2016 Governorship: Political activities resurrect in Edo Is Airhiavbere new face of Edo PDP?