The Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) has revealed that the acting Inspector General of Police has ordered immediate cut down of police presence at the ports to allow for more efficient cargo operations, especially at Apapa ports. A statement from the NSC indicated the order came as result of the recent meeting held between the Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Barr. Hassan Bello, and the acting Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu, in February at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. It will be recalled that the NSC had complained that the large presence of police personnel at the ports causes undue delays, thus reducing port efficiency. “Towards this end, directives aimed at streamlining police operations in and around Ports Terminals have been given to the Maritime Police Command and other formations. “The directives reinforce the mandate of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (Maritime) and the Commissioners of Police in-charge of the responsibility for police operations at all ports across the country” the statement quoted the IGP to have said. Furthermore, he noted that “no other Police Formations, Commands, Units or Teams by any designation are authorized to undertake any operation or investigation in and around any Nigerian Ports Terminals unless with the knowledge, written authorization and active involvement of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (Maritime) or the Commissioners of Police in-charge of the Western and Eastern Ports Authority as the case may be”, the order read. “The IGP also pointed out that the stoppage of containers to clearing agents by different units in the force has also been harmonized. Therefore, it has been directed that such orders must, henceforth, be routed through the office of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (Maritime) who will process same to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council for execution,” the statement said. The implication of this order is that the Maritime Police Commands are to work in conjunction with the Shippers’ Council to ensure the actualisation of the IGP’s order, it noted. NIMASA boss laments poor condition of seafarers Shippers'' council tasks operators to make Nigerian ports preferred cargo destination 80% of imported cargoes are under-declared – NSC Boss