Rising from its March 2019 Monetary Policy Committee Meeting (MPC), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), yesterday, cut lending rate from 14 percent to 13:50 percent. This is the first rate cut in about two years. The CBN had held rates constant as it struggled to keep inflationary pressure down. Also in spite of the consistent calls by industry watchers and the government for rates easing to spur investments, the apex bank had kept the rates constant citing high inflation. This rate cut is expected to impact lending rate as banks would be expected to lend  a bit lower than the current over 25 percent rate depending on the nature of the facility and the tenor. The CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, at the MPC press briefing, explained that at this point, easing will help consolidate the recent economic gains, drive investments and create new jobs. “Having been on this part, particularly the MPC at about 14 percent since July 2016, and with the relative stability we have seen in the economic variables over the last two to two and half years, we just think that, this should be the next phase where we should be talking about consolidating growth,” Emefiele said. The CBN governor told journalists that the MPC decided by a vote of six out of 11 members to reduce the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50 basis points. However two members voted to reduce the MPR by 25 basis points, while one member voted to reduce it by 100 basis points. Two members voted to hold the MPR at its current level. The other parameters were held constant as the 10 members voted to hold all other parameters constant. In summary, the MPC voted to: adjust the MPR by 50 basis points from 14.00 to 13.50 per cent; retain the asymmetric corridor of +200/-500 basis points around the MPR; retain the CRR at 22.5 per cent; and retain the Liquidity Ratio at 30 per cent. Through inflation is still 11.3 percent, far removed from the single digit rate the CBN was targeting before easing rates, Mr. Emefiele said the decision to ease at this time won’t hurt the economy. “You will recall that sometime in February 2017, exchange rate went to as high as N525/$1. If you compared those numbers today with inflation at 11.3 percent, reserves at close to $45bn and we feel this trend will continue, exchange rate converging in all the markets at around N358/$1 to N360, and the GDP effectively in positive trajectory in about five to six quarters, then you would agree with me that there is a relative stability. “You will also agree with me that there is sustainability in the level of stability in the macroeconomic indices in Nigeria,” he said. Emefiele noted that having kept the “MPC at about 14 percent since July 2016, and with the relative stability we have seen in the economic variables over the last two to two and half years, we just think that, this should be the next phase where we should be talking about consolidating growth.” “It should be the next phase where we should be talking about how we can create jobs and reduce unemployment,” he said, adding that “this should be the next phase were we should be talking about how we can diversify the base of the economy. “And in doing this, we will continue to keep our eyes on the stability that we have achieved so far in the macroeconomic variables. We will continue to do what we are doing – that is keeping inflation low. We will continue to do what we are doing – that is keeping the exchange rate stable; and continue what we are doing to ensure reserves are on positive trajectory and comfortable level to sustain the level of growth in our economy,” Mr. Emefiele assured. He noted that accelerating growth means CBN will push harder to consolidate GDP, and push harder to create jobs. “Doing this will mean that we are softening gradually,” he said. On GDP growth he said, “we feel that having consistently been in positive trajectory for growth and closing at an average annual GDP of 1.8 percent, I think that, if you look at the trend from 2017 to 2018, we should be able to push GDP to between 2.8 percent and 3 percent.” Commenting, Prof. Uche Uwaleke, a Professor of Capital Market at Nasarawa State University Keffi, said the reduction in MPR by 50 basis points signals the CBN’s desire to relax monetary policy to support economic growth. “Obviously, it is a right response to the declining inflationary pressure and the relative stability in exchange rate which have prevailed for quite some time. Moreover, on the external front, crude oil price has stabilized around 65 dollars per barrel while the US interest rate normalization has slowed down. All these must have combined to influence the MPC decision which is expected to increase the flow of credit to the real sector,” the don said. According to him, the “reduced MPR will also be positive for the capital market as some of the increased liquidity that will ensue will flow into the equities market. Also, it will be cheaper for the government to issue bonds given that part of this year’s budget deficit will be financed through domestic borrowing.” Mr. Bismarck Riwane, an analyst and CEO at Financial Derivatives described the timing of the rate cut as “interesting”, and lauded the move. JUST IN: CBN begins rate easing, cuts lending rates to 13.5% MPC: Election spending driving up inflation -CBN Why we can’t bring down interest rates now – CBN