There will be no improvement in the number of female lawmakers in the 9th National Assembly. In fact, results so far declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) indicate that the 9th Assembly will have fewer female lawmakers than the outgoing 8th Assembly. In the Senate, for instance, there will be only seven female senators as against the eight females elected in 2015. These include Senators Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos); Rose Oko (PDP, Cross River); Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra); and Uche Ekwunife (PDP, Anambra). Others are; Apiafi (PDP, Rivers); Eyakenyi Akon (PDP, Akwaibom) and Aishatu Dahiru (APC, Adamawa). In contrast, eight women were inaugurated senators in the Red Chamber of the National Assembly in June 2015. These included Senators Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos); Rose Oko (PDP, Cross River); Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra); Uche Ekwunife (PDP, Anambra); Monsurat Sunmonu (APC, Oyo) and Fatimat Raji-Rasaki (PDP, Ekiti). Others were the current Senate Minority Leader, Senator Abiodun Olujimi (PDP, Ekiti) and the first female senator from Northern Nigeria, Senator Binta Garba (APC, Adamawa). Subsequently, Senator Uche Ekwunife lost her seat at the election tribunal, thereby reducing the number of women serving in the 8th senate to seven. As a result, there will be an equal number of seven female senators in the 9th senate as there are in the current 8th senate which represents six per cent of the 109 members. But while the number of the women in the 8th and 9th senate remains the same, some faces have changed, likewise parties and geopolitical distributions, as two APC and five PDP female senators are set to take office this June. On geopolitical basis, Daily Trust analysis shows that both North West and North Central are without any female senator in the incoming National Assembly. However, of the seven serving female senators in the 8th senate, only three were re-elected, namely Senators Tinubu, Oko and Oduah. They are to be joined in the 9th senate by Ekwunife, who has just staged a come-back; Apiafi, a serving member of the 8th House of Reps as well as Eyakenyi and Dahiru. Meanwhile, Senators Olujimi, Raji-Rasaki, Sunmonu and Garba will not return to the 9th senate. In the House of Representatives, results also show a diminishing number of incoming female lawmakers in the 9th House. In 2015, 22 female lawmakers were sworn in at the Green Chamber, out of which 21 are currently serving owing to the death of Funke Adedoyin from Kwara State in 2018. Likewise, this represents six per cent of the 360-member House of Representatives. The serving female Reps include Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC, Abia); Nnenna Ukeje (PDP, Abia); Owoidighe Atai (PDP, Akwa-Ibom); Lynda Ikpeazu (PDP, Anambra); Eucharia Azodo (PDP, Anambra); and Sodaguno Omoni (PDP, Bayelsa). Others are Asabe Bashir (APC, Borno); Evelyn Oboro (PDP, Delta); Joan Mrakpor (PDP, Delta); Omosede Igbinedion (PDP, Edo); Binta Bello (PDP, Gombe); Aishatu Dukku (APC, Gombe); Rita Orji (PDP, Lagos); and Ayo Omidiran (APC, Osun). There are also Beni Lar (PDP, Plateau); Blessing Ibiba (PDP, Rivers); Betty Apiafi (PDP, Rivers); Boma Goodhead (PDP, PDP Rivers); Dorothy mato (APC, Benue); Stella Ngwu (PDP, Enugu); and Khadija Bukar-Ibrahim (APC, Yobe). As three of the 21, namely Oboro (Delta), Bello (Gombe) and Apiafi (Rivers) sought higher positions in the senate, only Apiafi was successful. Of the remaining 18, only Onyejeocha (Abia), Ikpeazu (Anambra), Dukku (Gombe), Bukar-Ibrahim (Yobe) and Lar (Plateau) have been officially returned by INEC. Two Federal Constituencies with incumbent female candidates, both PDP, have been declared inconclusive by INEC. These are Rita Orji’s Ajeromi/Ifelodun of Lagos State and Boma Goodhead’s Akuku-Toru/Asari-Toru in Rivers State. Meanwhile, 11 others namely, Ukeje, Atai, Azodo, Omoni, Bashir, Mrakpor, Igbinedion, Omidiran, Ibiba, Mato, Ngwu, lost their re-election bids either at the primaries or general election, and thus will not return to the 9th House. Of the female Reps not returning, three are members of the ruling APC while eight belong to the main opposition PDP. Just one non-incumbent, Zainab Gimba (APC, Borno), has so far won her election to the House. But even as the figure is likely to increase, an estimated 12-15 women will serve in the 9th House starting June this year, making up 3-4 per cent of all 360 members. This is approximately seven members short of the figure at the beginning of the 8th House in 2015. Globally, increased women participation in politics has been hailed as a fundamental aspect of modern democracy, especially with regard to policy changes, peace building, maternal health, economic growth and development. In Nigeria, there is no gainsaying that women are underrepresented in politics and decision making at all levels of government. In her report last week, the Head of European Union Election Observation Mission to Nigeria, Maria Arena, attributed the fall in percentage of women candidates in 2019 election to “lack of promotion of women by political parties.” She said, “Nigeria has the lowest rate of women in parliament in Africa, with the number steadily decreasing since 2011. In key appointed and elective positions, women did not reach the 35 per cent target. “Women comprised only six per cent in the outgoing National Assembly. While attempts have been made to introduce legal reforms, political parties have not promoted women in party leadership or as candidates.” It would be recalled that in the 2019 National Assembly election, both the APC and PDP, the two dominant political parties in Nigeria, fielded only 31 candidates for both the Senate and House of Representatives in the 36 states and FCT. For both parties, while 10 women slugged it out with their male counterparts in the race for senate, 21 females did same for the House of Representatives. In fact, 19 states had no female slot at  the National Assembly, either on APC or PDP platform. The states include Bauchi, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kwara, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Sokoto, Taraba and Zamfara. A look at the Senate’s women 31 women vie for 469 National Assembly seats under APC, PDP Goje, Omogunwa, Bukar have no bills in 2 years