Heads of security agencies in Imo have vowed to deal ruthlessly with anyone caught violating the electoral process in Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections. This is coming as, the police commands of Enugu, Imo, Abia and Anambra state which make up the Zone 9, have set up election response team ahead of Saturday’s elections . At a meeting of heads of the Army, Police, Navy, Immigration, Air Force, Federal  Road Safety Corps, Department of Security Services ,Prisons Service and National Security and Civil Defence Corps  in Imo state on Thursday, the agencies  said that they were ready to deal with election riggers and thugs on Saturday. Imo State Police commissioner, Dasuki Galadanchi, who spoke on behalf of other security chiefs at a briefing in Owerri said that nobody would be allowed to manipulate the electoral process. Galadanchi said that the security chiefs were committed to seeing voters vote candidates of their choices without molestation from anybody. According to him, the joint operation by the security agencies with strategic meetings by the resident electoral commissioner would ensure that the elections are violent free. He said, “In conjunction with head of security Agencies, we have finished our strategic meetings with INEC. I can assure that the election would violent free. We want imo people to vote without molestation.” The CP said that issues of kidnapping of electoral officials which characterized the last Presidential and national Assembly elections in the state would not be tolerated on Saturday. Meanwhile at press briefing in Owerri, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of zone 9, Wilson Inalegwu, said that the setting of the tactical unit across the zone was to ensure that political thugs did not hijack the forth coming governorship election. Apart from the response team, the AIG said that the commands and all the police formations across the zone had constituted a situation room. According to Inalegwu, the commands had increased the number of policemen deployed to be guarding the Independent National Electoral Commission’s offices in the zone. Also residents of the state are moving en masse to their villages to cast their votes in Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly election. In most of the motor parks visited, there was an upsurge in passenger traffic compared to February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections. Presidential/NASS polls: Imo women protest alleged military, police misconduct 2019 elections: Army arrests 4 fake soldiers Imo 2019: Police invite political parties for peace parley