Almost every election year, Rivers State makes news for the wrong reasons. Like other years, violence marred the 2019 elections in the state, leading to the death of many people. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that all eyes are fixed on the state over what would be the eventual outcome of the process. In Rivers State, at least hundreds of people are said to have been killed between 2003 and 2019 as a result of politically motivated violence. This level of carnage came into full swing in 1998 during the emergence of militancy in the Niger Delta. Politicians in the state were said to have empowered youths to massage their political ego and help them to clinch power by all means possible. In 1999, two major political parties, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) dominated the affairs of the state. While the PDP was controlled by the likes of the late Dr Marshall Harry, the ANPP was led by Chief Rufus Ada George.  Since then, the PDP has been dominating the political space in the state. It has not given any other party the opportunity to occupy the Brick House in Port Harcourt, the state capital.  Dr Peter Odili, a medical doctor, won the 1999 governorship election with overwhelming votes from 20 out of the 23 local government areas of the state while Ada George’s ANPP won in his Okrika as well as Ogu-bolo and Oyigbo Local Government Area. In 2003 when Dr Odili was to seek re-election, there was a bloody crisis between two militant groups, the Niger Delta Vigilante Force  (NDVF) and the Niger Delta Peoples Salvation Force (NDPSF), led by Chief Ateke Tom and Asari Dokubo respectively. The fight between these two groups left many people dead. Dokubo was said to have told Odili to allow the election to be conducted without manipulation because of his conviction that he would win. He contested against Sergeant Awuse, who was the ANPP governorship candidate. But that election, according to foreign observers, was marred by fraud. The observers argued that the number of votes in some polling units was far more than the total votes cast. It was also alleged that in the entire state, the total votes cast outnumbered the total number of eligible voters. Odili’s reelection bid was a tug-of-war as key political stakeholders in the state, especially those of Kalabari extraction, did not want him to come back because of irreconcilable political differences. But he had his way and was reelected. That year, Okrika, Ogu-bolo and Oyigbo became a battlefield as PDP reclaimed the three local government areas in a fiercely contested election. The victory of the PDP in Okrika and Ogu-bolo was not without violence unleashed on perceived political enemies.  Scores of lives were lost, while properties of leading opposition political figures were destroyed by suspected cultists. Dr Marshall Harry was assassinated in his Abuja residence by yet to be identified gunmen.  This was followed with the assassination of another PDP chieftain, Chief A.K Dikibo on his way to Asaba, Delta State.   The Okrika incident and assassination of notable political figures in the state was the offshoot of political violence, which has continued till date. In September 2004, the Amnesty International wrote an open letter to former Governor Odili, expressing deep concerns over the protection of human rights of civilians in and around Port Harcourt. They stated that there was an increasingly alarming security situation in the state as a result of fighting between rival cult groups. During that period, deadly cult groups such Demgbam Dewell, Ice Landers and Egbesu Confraternity operated freely in the streets of Port Harcourt. In some of their battles of supremacy, innocent residents paid the supreme price. In December 2004, a gang of armed youths, believed to be members of the Egbesu cult group, attacked Odili’s convoy along the East-West Road in Port Harcourt, killing two persons.  The state government and different cult groups were running parallel governments. An unconfirmed report had it that major cult leaders in the state were in the payroll of the government of the day. Speaking on the political situation in Rivers then, a resident of the state who did not want his name mentioned said, “It was a hellish experience to live in Port Harcourt in those days as there were killings all over the state. There were rival cult groups fighting battles of supremacy. The politicians recruited these boys who they used to fight their political opponents and manipulate the outcome of the electoral process in the state. Some of the cult leaders were said to be on government’s payroll, just as most of them occupied government reserved accommodations. These boys were armed with all kinds of dangerous weapons, which they used to terrorise innocent residents. The youths were a willing tool in the hands of these desperate politicians. They were used to rig elections and chase away voters. When Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi assumed office as the executive governor of the state in 2007, he declared zero tolerance for cultism and armed gangs, warning that his administration would not work with any of such groups. He declared war on Chief Ateke Tom, who was the leader of the NDVF. As a result of this, soldiers were used to raid his Okochiri residence, where his personal properties were destroyed. Some of the cult groups were also chased out of Port Harcourt. Thereafter, Amaechi set up a truth and reconciliation committee. The committee, headed by the late Justice Kayode Eso, was given a term of reference to look into killings in the state, reconcile those that were in one way or another offended and bring those who were found guilty to justice. In 2009, the Rivers State Truth and Reconciliation Committee blamed the crisis in the state on both Odili and the Federal Government, particularly the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo.  The report outlined interwoven problems of failed governance, cultism, politics of acrimony and insurgency. Speaking on the effects of political crises in the state, Macdonald Ukoh, a Port Harcourt-based analyst said, “All these actions have built up to have multiplying effects on the socio-economic development of the state. The youths who were armed by these politicians are left with the weapons. The weapons find their way into various communities where residents are killed and maimed with reckless abandon.’’ Political violence and killings came to its peak during and after the 2015 general elections as Governor Nyesom Wike and the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, engaged in a battle of supremacy. Since then, unprecedented number of deaths has been recorded across the state.  Amaechi was a strong member of the PDP before irreconcilable political differences between him and former President Goodluck Jonathan forced him to pitch his tent with the All Progressives Congress (APC) and helped Dr Adol Peterside to clinch the party’s governorship ticket. The contest between Peterside and Wike turned out to be a do-or-die affair. As a result, there was an increased rate of politically motivated killings. In Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area, scores of persons were killed.  A very pathetic incident was the killing of a prominent APC chieftain in the area, Chief Adube. He was shot dead alongside two of his children by suspected assassins, led by a notorious bandit, Don Wanye. The death of Adube and his children was followed with the killing of another APC ward chairman, his wife and son. Don Wanye and his gang of bandits unleashed terror in the area, killing hundreds of residents. The APC claimed that over 1,000 of its members were killed in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area. The killings in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni came to a climax on December 31, 2017 when over 20 persons who were returning from New Year midnight services were killed by criminals suspected to be loyal to Don Wanye. There were also reported cases of political violence in Ahoada, Degema, Abonnema, Etche, Omuma and Port Harcourt. However, residents of the state heaved a sigh of relief when President Muhammadu Buhari intervened in 2018. The president directed the minister of interior to asses the extent of killings in the state. He also gave security agencies a marching order to go after those responsible and bring them to book.  Buhari’s directive paid off as some of the notorious bandits, especially Don Wanye and his group were arrested. For those following political events in Rivers State, therefore, the violence that characterised the 2019 general elections did not come as a surprise. Over 30 persons reportedly lost their lives in Abonnema while many were killed in Degema, Oyigbo, Khana, Bonny and Gokana. The Nigerian Army and Police were accused of aiding politicians to kill and maim innocent and harmless voters. They were also accused of invading collation centres and carting away electoral materials. The two security agecies denied the charges. The spokesman of the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Col Aminu Iliyazu, absolved the Army of any complicity in the political violence witnessed across the state. He   said the Nigerian Army had a constitutional role to aid the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other security agencies in ensuring that elections are conducted in a peaceful atmosphere and orderly manner. In reaction to the allegations against the Army, the Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Turkur Buratai, set up an investigative panel to examine their role during the elections in Rivers State. The panel has visited the state and met with critical stakeholders, including Governor Wike. But some of the stakeholders are not comfortable with the composition of the panel. For example, a Niger Delta rights activist, Ms Annkio Briggs, wants an independent body to be part of the panel. Speaking when the eastern zone of the Ijaw Youth Council visited her in Port Harcourt, Briggs said that for the panel to be credible, independent bodies like the Civil Society Organisation (CSO) and religious groups should be part of it. She faulted the statement credited to the Nigerian Army, which said the INEC was not fair in its indictment over the alleged role they played in parts of the state during the governorship and presidential elections, saying it was condemnable. Speaking on the situation in Rivers, the commissioner of police in the state, Usman Balel, said the police would not relent in their efforts to clamp down on cult groups, organised criminal gangs and unlicensed firearm holders. Meanwhile, both the PDP and APC are trading blames on who is responsible for the escalation of political violence across the state. While the APC, through its publicity secretary, Chris Finebone, said they had a documented proof to show that hundreds of their supporters were killed, the chairman of the PDP in the state, Bro Felix Obuah, said the APC used instruments of state power to harass and unleash terror on its members. He alleged that the party’s collation officer in Khana, Dr Ferry Gberebe, was shot by agents of the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad (F-SARS) during the governorship election. Following the crisis that rocked governorship election in Rivers, the INEC suspended the collation and announcement of results, but last week, the electoral umpire said it would resume collation on April 2 while supplementary election in some places would hold on April 13. Ahmad Sani’s ANPP on its last legs 2019: Late Marshall Harry’s son picks APC nomination forms Guber polls: States where there may  be upsets