The Acting National Chairman of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Professor Tunde Adeniran, says the party has commenced rebuilding and repositioning process ahead of future elections. Professor Adeniran said in a statement made available to journalists by the SDP Director of Media and Publicity, Hon. Yemi Akinbode, that “very soon, Nigerians will see what our next moves are.” “One thing that is clear is that we would restructure the SDP in line with the vision of building a strong, decent and disciplined national political party that will become the real third force in Nigeria. We would not have space for indiscipline and impunity. All the shenanigans will not be allowed to rear their heads again,” he also said. He hailed all their candidates in the just concluded governorship and House of Assembly elections and thanked them for their doggedness, commitment and dedication to the ideals and principles of the party in the face of the numerous challenges faced in the buildup to the 2019 general elections. The statement read: “The SDP wishes to express its profound gratitude and appreciation to our candidates across Nigeria for their commitment and dedication to the ideals and philosophy of our great party in the run-up to the 2019 general elections despite the challenges and problems created by mischief makers who were sponsored by their paymasters  to factionalize and destabilise the progress of the party; as part of their designs to kill the SDP chances of becoming the real political alternative and third force in the  Nigerian polity. “We want to thank you for the good fight, steadfastness and devotion to the ideals of the SDP. You went round the whole places with the SDP flag, campaigning day and night, selling the SDP brand to Nigerians. This is a remarkable feat that you have all performed…. “It was unfortunate that the party found itself in such a precarious situation that made it impossible for us to respond as we would have loved to do. We were aware that the expectations of Nigerians were high when we started the rebuilding process in March 2018. We were determined and resolute. But you could see how crisis can deal a great blow to one’s aspiration.” Adeniran, who lauded the INEC for doing a  great job, called on Nigerians, especially the media, to support the new government both at the national and state levels.  SDP has started repositioning ahead of 2023 – Prof. Adeniran SDP congratulates Buhari, calls for unity SDP congratulates Buhari, calls for unity