A pro-Buhari group has asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to appoint President Muhammadu Buhari as the Life Chairman, Board of Trustees of the party after the expiration of his second tenure. The Director of Awareness and Sensitization, National Movement for Re-election of Buhari (NMFRB), Prince Samuel Ojo disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists in Lagos on Thursday. The group, which has former Abia state governor, Orji Uzor Kalu, as its National Coordinator, also applauded the efforts of Buhari in building a prosperous Nigeria. He said the leadership qualities of the President are worthy of emulation by other leaders across the world. “As suggested by the National Coordinator of NMFRB, Dr. Orji Kalu, the party should honour the President with the position of Life Chairman, Board of Trustees of the APC. The President is the brand behind the APC. “After the expiration of President Buhari’s tenure, the party will still leverage on his robust popularity across the country. Every Nigerian knows that President Buhari means well for the country,” the Director said. He cautioned political leaders in Nigeria against inflammatory and unguided utterances capable of heating the polity, saying the unity of Nigeria is non-negotiable even as he expressed confidence in Buhari’s capacity to take Nigeria to the next level. While advising the opposition to play the game by the rules, the retired Deputy Commissioner of Police, commended the National Coordinator of the Movement, Dr. Orji Kalu, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Comrade Adams Oshiomole and other stakeholders of the APC for their roles in Buhari/Osinbajo’s victory. “For the sake of building a decent society, Nigerians must complement the efforts of the President in its determination to reposition the country. “We must shun violence and political sentiments in the interest of national unity. The President has done extremely well since he assumed office in 2015. The goodwill of President Buhari is what the APC is enjoying,” he stated. Atiku and  Kalu: The fall back options Buhari douses tension as APC NEC holds today 2019 Presidency: Strong signals Buhari’ll run again