The national coordinator, North East Alliance for Buhari 2019, Hon. Kaka Bolori, said yesterday that the PDP and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar will find it difficult to prove that there was rigging during the presidential and National Assembly elections. Atiku had severally cited the voter turnout in Borno and Yobe states as sign of rigging that gave President Muhammadu Buhari more than 90 per cent votes in Borno and clear majority in Yobe. Speaking in Abuja, Bolori said the people of the two states will never support the PDP because they believed the then ruling government at the centre allowed the Boko Haram insurgency to fester. He said they also saw hope in President Buhari who liberated many towns and villages, a development that paved the way for large voter turnout. “The total number of registered voters in Borno State is 2.3 million with 987,290 accredited voters in the February 23rd, 2019 elections,” he said. “Not even half the number of registered people voted on that day, so where is the rigging? The reality is that the people of Borno and Yobe states in particular and the North East in general simply have nothing to do with PDP anymore,” he said. Bolori also said in Borno, the PDP went to the election with two parallel executives led by Mahdi Badairi and Zannah Gaddamama’s factions, with so many legal battles and had parallel party primaries each claiming authenticity and legitimacy. “So, how do you expect them to produce anything serious for Atiku?” Bolori recalled that in the 2015 general elections, about 17 LGAs and big towns were under occupation by the Boko Haram terrorists. “But the trend changed this time around because most of our people have gone back home where they voted in an atmosphere of freedom. “Above all, prominent people from Borno State who are close to Buhari had initiated door to door campaign which turned out to be positive,” he added. Nigeria decides today Why we formed alliance for Buhari in N/East - Bolori Yobe never shifts loyalty from Buhari but…