Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport private terminal (MMA2), yesterday, insisted it’s Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is for a period of 36 years. It said contrary to reports by an online medium that the agreement is for a period of 12 years, the pact is explicit on the terms of agreement. According to it, FAAN offered Bi-Courtney a 36-year lease in a letter dated 12th of October 2006 and an agreement was duly signed on the 2nd of Feb 2007 by the minister of Aviation. BASL explained that the agreement was further confirmed at a meeting held on 7th of July 2009 chaired by late President Umaru Yar’adua with then minister of Aviation, Secretary to the Federal Government, Attorney General of the Federation/Minister of Justice, Minister of Finance, MD/CEO of FAAN and the chairman of Bi-Courtney, amongst others in attendance. Spokesperson of Bi-Courtney, Eniola Ade-Solanke, further noted that FAAN had not complied fully with the terms of the agreement by its continued management of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) which was supposed to be part of the agreement. According to Bi-Courtney, the breach of its obligations had caused it a loss of over N250 billion. “The clear provisions of the concession agreement between Bi-Courtney and the government uphold the operation of the MMA2 terminal for an undisputed period of 36 years. “It is obvious that MMA2 is the most well-designed and run terminal in the country operating on very limited revenue. It is a masterpiece in the provision of public infrastructure through private capital. “MMA2 has thrived in the face of operational challenges battling the concession including FAAN’s flagrant breach of concession agreement,” Bi-Courtney said. It however dismissed online reports about instability in the terminal, saying, “it is of interest to also note that the fictitious claim of alarm and panic causing instability amongst Bi-Courtney staff bears no iota of truth and is absolutely non-existent. “Bi-Courtney remains a key employer of labour in the aviation industry committed to providing an environment for strong corporate health without fear, pressure or prejudice.” Tussle for ownership of MMA2 Airport concession still raising dust Airport concession to Bi-courtney raises dust