The Bauchi State governor-elect, Senator Bala Mohammed has promised to bring reforms and transformation that will take the state ‘‘out of its current situation towards greater prosperity’’. He made the promise after he was presented with Certificate of Return by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Bala Mohammed, who was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) defeated the incumbent governor, Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship election. The Certificate was presented to him by the National Commissioner of INEC in Charge of Bauchi, Gombe and Yobe, Baba Shettima Arfo, at the headquarters of the commission in Bauchi. His deputy, Senator Baba Tela and the 31 members-elect of the state House of Assembly were also presented with their certificates by the Bauchi Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Ibrahim Abdullahi. The 31 members-elect of the state House of Assembly members are from the APC, PDP and NNPP. Speaking after the ceremony, Senator Mohammed described his election as a victory for the people of Bauchi State. “Today represents a further confirmation and validation of the collective resolve of Bauchi people as expressed on March 9th, 2019. I am highly delighted that Bauchi State spoke with one voice and I am privileged to be beneficiary of that resolve. “I, therefore, commit myself to an all-inclusive, equitable and fair-minded approach to governance by ensuring that we keep to the fulfilment of our campaign promises. There is more to gain as a people in collective efforts than practicing one party system in the state. “As I conclude this short address, I want to specially acknowledge and appreciate leaders of various political parties, INEC and the security agents for the role they played at ensuring that the elections were free, fair and credible. “We will ensure that as a government, we bring Bauchi back from the woods by improving the internally generated revenue of the state as well as all the sectors of the economy. As a government, we will not repeat the mistakes of past governments,” he said. Senator Bala Mohammed receives Certificate of Return, promises transformations Three still out as INEC issues certs to Okowa, 24 assembly members Bauchi Governor-elect displays Certificate of Return - Photo