The Campaign Director General of Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party’s Presidential candidate in the February 23 election, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has quit his party membership. Daniel, in a letter dated 14th March 2019, which was addressed to the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said that he was leaving the party to pursue “some other vocations”. Here are the high points of the letter: 1. I joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State on Sunday, the 9th of September, 2001. 2. I served as Governor of Ogun State for eight (8) years and our administration till today remains a point of reference in terms of physical, social, economic, educational and human capital development since the State was created in 1976. 3. Our party, the Peoples Democratic Party ran into trouble waters towards the end of our administration (about the year 2009) which led to the sad loss in the election of 2011, and regrettably ten (10) years after, the party has been unable to resolve those internal disputes and challenges. 4. We have responded to the yearnings of our people and joined others in emplacing an administration that we believe will better serve the interests of our people than what currently exists. 5. In the last few months, I have had one of the rare privileges of traveling round the entire length and breadth of our great country on, at least, two occasions; the first being during my campaigns to become the National Chairman of our great party, and later as the Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organization (APCO). 6. In the course of all these travels, I have built a network of contacts, of friends and associates in a mutually rewarding relationships which I cherished most and greatly too. 7. I am persuaded that I have fewer points to make and prove in my Political journeys in partisan politics. 8. My decision to quit partisan politics notwithstanding, I have decided to rejuvenate my charity-based organization, the Gateway Front Foundation (GFF). 10. I will miss the company of my friends and associates and all those relationships I built in the course of the years all over the country.. Atiku's Campaign DG quits PDP My husband will unite Nigerians, says Titi Atiku Ogun Guber: PDP's Gbenga Daniel wins polling unit for APC