The Nigerian Army on Wednesday says a sustained covert surveillance and tactical lines of operations orchestrated concurrently with other security agencies led to the rescue of Sheikh Ahmad Suleiman. The Commander, 17 Brigade, Nigerian Army, Lt. Lukman Omoniyi, while presenting the rescued Islamic cleric to newsmen said immediately after the kidnap incidence, a marching order was given by the COAS for 17 Brigade Nigerian Army to carry out an immediate rescue operation in order to rescue the kidnapped victims. According to him, the operation was structured to reflect robust synergy with relevant security agencies. He said: “the Nigerian Army Directorate of Military Intelligence provided actionable intelligence and constant guidance for the Brigade in this regard. “These efforts have finally led to the rescue of the kidnapped victims by 0058 hours earlier today.  It is of great interest that as we speak the rescued clerics are intact in good health condition as ascertained by the medical examination already conducted on them at 17 Brigade Medical Centre. “Our synergy and collaboration with relevant security agencies remain the indispensable force enabler in this context.  It is therefore expedient to further encourage the law-abiding civil populace in Katsina state never to relent in providing the Brigade quality cooperation and timely information needed for us to remain proactive as we discharge our security obligations.” While reaffirming the commitment of Nigerian Army and by extension 17 Brigade to safety of lives and property in Katsina state as well as the country at large, the Brigade relishes the ever-assuring support of the COAS particularly “as we remain professionally responsive to perform our constitutional roles always.” It would be recalled that Sheikh Ahmad Suleiman, a renowned Islamic cleric and five others of the Jammaatul Izalatul Bidia Wa Iqamatus Sunna (JIBWIS) were kidnapped along Kakumi – Kankara Road  in Kankara LGA of Katsina state on 14 March 2019. BREAKING: My experience in kidnappers’ den bitter, says released Islamic scholar, Ahmad Suleiman Troops rescue 338 captives, kill 30 terrorists Army rescues 1000 B/Haram captives