The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has dispelled claims in some quarters that its presidential candidate for the February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar made some demands of President Muhammadu Buhari. The party said Atiku had not and would never make or accept any condition from  Buhari who was declared winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan in a statement insisted that the party must go to court and “reclaim” its “stolen mandate.” The party claimed that it has the authentic results of the poll in all the polling units across the nation and must fight to finish. “The Buhari-led Presidency and the APC, know that their electoral robbery cannot stand before any noble justices and are now attempting to use all sorts of blackmail and shenanigans to derail the quest by Nigerians to reclaim the stolen mandate at the tribunal. “However, let it be known to President Buhari and the APC that Atiku Abubakar and the PDP are standing shoulder to shoulder with Nigerians in this collective determination to take back the stolen mandate and we are not ready for any form of negotiation with anybody on this matter. “Our party and candidate remain committed to the huge sacrifices made by Nigerians in ensuring our collective victory as delivered at the polling units across the country. We are mindful of the pains that Nigerians are passing through since the subversion of their will at the polls; we are sensitive to the expectations that millions of compatriots place on our shoulders in this struggle and we will never let Nigerians down. “We have all the authentic results from all the polling units as well as forensic evidence of manipulations by the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. We will bare them all at the tribunal and the court will give justice to Nigerians. “We shall devote every energy necessary to reclaim our mandate and have Atiku Abubakar declared President, in line with the will of the people as delivered at the polling units on February 23, 2019. “Anything short of this is not acceptable and no amount of false reports, connivance, contrivance, intimidation, harassment and fresh attacks on our leaders, including the Director General of our Presidential Campaign, Senate President Bukola Saraki, whose residence was besieged by security agents last night (Friday), can alter this resolve,” the party said. Breaking: I'll reclaim my mandate, Atiku tells Buhari Go to court now, South-West PDP tells Atiku Authentic Yoruba leaders have endorsed Atiku as next President – Babatope