Businesses, residences, schools among many others have been in total blackout in Nasarawa State. For three weeks now, the blackouts have invariably affected the cost of living and doing business in the area. Towns affected include New Nyanya, Masaka, Ado and some parts of Karu town in Karu Local Government area, as well as Akwanga, Nasarawa Eggon and Lafia, which has been experiencing epileptic power supply for over a decade. The densely-populated towns of Nasarawa, which share boundaries with Abuja, are the worst-hit, leading to the cost of living shooting up in these areas. The cost of essential things like cold water, and others like soft drinks, ice blocks, charging of phones, among others, have risen. Sunday Abu, who sells sachet water, said “Due to the power failure, we have now classified our products into three categories. Room temperature water costs N10 each, cold one costs N15 and the iced one costs N20. However, you have to book from cold room owners in advance of at least two days to get ice block for events or political rallies. You don’t just come and buy ice block without booking, except you are willing to pay higher than the normal price. They are making brisk business because of the hot weather, although they also complain of the cost of diesel, maintenance of generators and payment of levies demanded by local government officials.” When contacted, the chairman of Karu Local Government, Samuel Gajere Akala, did not reply the text message sent to him on whether the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has informed him or if he has contacted them on the reason for the blackout. Daily Trust Saturday observed that many laundries and tailors in Karu have resorted to using charcoal irons to iron their customers’ clothes in order to meet deadline, and at an increased price. They said the endless wait for the power to be restored is detrimental to their businesses, which is why they resorted to other alternatives at a higher price. However, Keffi, Akwanga, Nasarawa Eggon and other local government areas have one common sight – shops selling generators, as well as small generators in front of almost all the shops. A resident of Uke in Karshi, who prefers anonymity, said they contributed money in the community to install some equipment, yet it is hard to have 24-hours power supply. A barber in Keffi said he relies solely on his small generator, to run his shop. He is seriously considering the advice of one of his customers to buy another generator in case the one he is using develops a fault. While some parts of Kokona and Akwanga LGAs are experiencing rationing, Nasarawa Eggon Local Government has been in total blackout because of alleged vandalisation of power equipment. In Lafia, power is supplied for between one and three hours daily. A senior staff of AEDC in lafia, who prefers anonymity, told Daily Trust Saturday that the cause of the blackout may not be unconnected with the systems upgrade for improved power supply. Recently, Commissioner Consumer Affairs of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission NERC, Dr. Moses Arigu, disclosed that 1123 complaints have been lodged for overbilling of customers by the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) in Nasarawa State. The Director Corporate Services of AEDC, Mr. Abimbola Odubiyi, reiterated the company’s commitment to improve on power supply, assuring electricity consumers in the state to always channel their grievances to the complaint office for immediate response. “This office is open to address customer-related problems on service delivery. Feel free any day to bring your complaints and they will be properly addressed.” When Daily Trust Saturday contacted AEDC, it said, “The power outage is due to some technical challenges we have been experiencing with the feeder serving your area. We apologize for the inconvenience and assure you that our technical team is working tirelessly to ensure speedy restoration of supply to your area. Please bear with us.”  Outages rock major cities, as electricity grid now 1,900mw SME: How businesses can cut costs Karu: Nasarawa’s untapped goldmine