The coordinator of APC North West Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, has urged the party faithful in Sokoto state to remain peaceful, resolute and calm, following the loss of the party at the gubernatorial election. He was reacting to the outcome of the gubernatorial election in Sokoto in which PDP polled 512,002 votes while APC had 511,660. “We have jointly struggled, fought and won. We are never losers. All and sundry have done their possible best, by coming out en masse and massively cast their invaluable votes for our candidates, at all levels ,” he stated  in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Bashir Rabe Mani. He said: “The party’s leadership, membership and the entire electorate in the state should not despair, in anyway. In this direction, we are really appreciating and cherishing the immense sustained support of the members of the party to beat, the APC, as well as the electorate, in general.” Senator Wamakko who represents Sokoto North zone, said the candidates of the party had recorded myriad of landslide victories during the 2019 general polls sequel to the unflinching loyalty and unshakeable devotion by its supporters and the electorate. He assured that the APC and its leaders at all levels would remain religiously committed to the welfare, security and general comfort of Nigerians. According to him, this form part of the cardinal ideals and objectives of the party. “Nigerians will never regret bestowing their mandates to the APC,” he promised, adding that “our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari was just given a second term by Nigerians and he will surely take the entire country to the Next Level.” He added: “The leaders of the party at all levels most especially the ninth Senate, would relentlessly strive to fully complement the efforts of the President to better the lives of Nigerians, in all ramifications.” He called on the leadership and membership of the party, as well as entire Nigerians continue to be peaceful and united. Sokoto gov’ship: It’s battle between Tambuwal, Wamakko Sokoto PDP rejects polls results, Tambuwal calls for calm Wamakko, Bafarawa move to overtake each other in guber race