The Federal Government has been urged to make the capital market the fulcrum of its industrialisation agenda and economic development in a bid to urgently lead the country out of poverty. This was part of the resolutions at the 3rd Annual Budget Seminar of the SEC with the theme ‘Budgets, Elections and Capital Markets: Risks and Opportunities in 2019’. In her remarks, Acting Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms. Mary Uduk, said government budget affects the economy and the economy  in turn affects the capital market. According to her, “stakeholders, both local and foreign are interested in the budget and try to analyse how it affects them. Investors also sit down and analyse the budget and that is why the capital market is looking at the impact of the budget and how the market can aid its implementation. “The capital market is very important in funding for a lot of projects in the economy. It is important in raising these money to fund the budget. We want to be in the driver’s seat and contribute to the budget if the Federal Government. “We are interested in driving and contributing to this economy and that is why we are having this seminar. We believe there are a lot of opportunities for the capital market in this budget. There is need for us to seat down again as a capital market community and find ways of driving the budget.” In his lead presentation, the Head Economic Research, SEC, Dr. Afolabi Olowookere, said opportunities exist for equities and sub-national issuances and urged state governments to explore the capital market for funding of their projects. Olowookere said opportunities exist for equities and sub-national issuances as a means to fund the budget while urging a lower FGN domestic borrowing to make room for private issuances. He said some of the ways the budget can be funded include “creation of money market-based instruments and trading, commodity trading and derivatives, investing in eligible companies under Tax Credit Scheme as well as attracting restructured oil assets to list. Delay in 2014 budget presentation will affect the economy –Experts 2016 budget: Financial experts task FG on proper utilisation of capital market Nigeria: Big budgets, small impact