Let me first of all congratulate you on your victory during the just concluded governorship election. We are grateful to God for the grace of another four years granted to you to continue with the good work you have started. Of course the grace is also an occasion for you to ponder over your infractions and rectify them for the good of all. Nobody is prefect, as the saying goes. Also, congratulations for the peace that we witnessed during and after elections. Four years of stewardship of a state like Kaduna must have provided you with  enough experience on how to govern a complex and multi-cultural state. I pray that the experience you have garnered will enable you to conduct yourself and the affairs of the state with more ease and confidence for our common good.  Truly, Kaduna needs a leader like you. Through your acceptance speech, you extended an olive branch to those who voted for your opponent and that is a good gesture. The mantle of leadership, as you are aware is a responsibility bestowed on you by God and as a Muslim you are aware that you will account for every deed and activity you engaged in under oath as a governor. I advise you to accommodate everyone in the state and maintain your good policies that will help both the less privileged and elite. Endeavour to always carry everyone along. I appeal to you to examine issues cleverly and be compassionate, show empathy, especially in dealing with issues relating to the poor. They constitute majority of those who spoke with their votes to re-elect you. Personally, I believe in your policies aimed at making Kaduna great but due to the nature of our people you need to be flexible in order to succeed. Your enigmatic resolve, courage and political will are essential ingredients for leadership. I urge you to continue to utilize them for the good of the state. You should be humble in victory and do not engage in vendetta of any sort. Use your local and international connections to improve the lives of your people. I pray that Allah provides you with extra health and wisdom to make Kaduna great again. Jamilu Bello Dogarawa can be reached at:  jbdogarawa@gmail.com PVCs: It’s mischievous to say INEC is partial in distribution -Commissioner Why APC’s days are numbered in Kaduna – Idris My plans for Kaduna if elected governor - El-Rufa’i