Borno State governor-elect, Engr (Prof) Babagana Umara Zulum’s landslide victory at the March 9 governorship election has launched him into a covenant with the beleaguered state. The electorate sprayed a whooping 1,175,440 votes on him, out of the accredited 1,292,138, leaving his distant trailer, Mohammed Alkali Imam of the PDP, with 66,115. The lump sum votes majority of the voters heaped on the Agric Engineer-turned-politician is expressive of not just the love they have for him, but the lofty hopes and confidence they invest in him to rescue them out of their persistently traumatising predicaments, and transit them to prosperity on the scale of fellow Nigerians across the country. Whoever is given much, much more is expected in reciprocity. Before Zulum, therefore, is a long stretch of a tightrope he must determinedly and competently strut on to deliver what the populace expect from him. Between Prof Zulum and the prosperous governance he may have envisioned for Borno is one broad field of challenges daringly him in the face. First and foremost of these is insecurity; then resuscitation of education, agricultural production and economic activities, most notably the smooth and massive flow of trans border trade between Nigeria and its sister Chad Basin countries down to East and Central Africa, for which Borno has been famous as the most enviable gateway over the ages. Expressing his faith in government delivering well as a continuum, Zulum has reiterated at several fora that his administration would emerge from that of outgoing Governor Kashim Shettima, and it would be a continuation of that. The administration of Shettima has, in spite of numerous alleged weaknesses, reportedly done well in addressing the humanitarian crisis arising from the Boko Haram insurgency with resources accruing from the federal government, international agencies and donor organisations. One of the challenges facing Zulum, therefore, is building a fine linkage between Shettima’s projects, programmes, and accomplishments thereof, and marrying them with the ones he has fashioned out according to his vision of good governance. Combating Boko Haram terror is the sole duty and responsibility of the federal government. Yet, in this regard, Zulum will also be faced with the Goliath-like challenge of supporting the weapon of the federal government, which is the Operation Lafiya Dole, and the four Chad Basin owner countries’ weapon -the Multinational Joint Task Force. Oftentimes, the youth brigade/local vigilante called Civilian Joint Task Force and the hunters have, undoubtedly, rendered enormous help to the Lafiya Dole and MNJTF troops in anti-insurgency operations. Zulum, therefore, has to finetune and revise the roles of these groups according to the current and emerging needs of the terror war, even if to curtail the persistence of sporadic attacks in the so thickly terrorised provinces of the state. There has always been the need for the committed engagement of the community and youth leaders in information and intelligence  gathering, which the military have all along expressed thirst for, to curtail the unnoticed seeping of suicide bombers into Maiduguri metropolis and other returnee communities. Zulum faces the challenge of doing this well. Insecurity is the foremost challenge to Zulum because, as President Muhammadu Buhari said recently about his commitment to the Boko Haram war, you have to secure a territory before you develop it. Staring Zulum daringly in the face is the very tall challenge of resuscitating and fast-tracking the development of education. An accusing finger has always been pointed at near-total absence of proper education and employment among the youth as two of the main factors sustaining the insurgency, because the terror sponsors prey on the teaming uneducated and unemployed youth for recruitment to sustain the insurgency. This is coupled with the grave situation of about 60,000 children orphaned and thrown out of school by the insurgency, for which the outgoing administration of Kashim Shettima has built over 50 mega schools and mega classrooms complexes, not just for the orphans but to also provide students whose schools were destroyed and those whose communities are still insecure to continue with their educational pursuits. The return of millions of IDPs as well as the 75,000 and 50,000 Nigerian refugees in neighbouring Niger Republic and Cameroon, to their respective home communities in the liberated territories has been at the forefront of programmes of transiting the state to normalcy, for which the Kashim Shettima administration created the Ministry for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, popularly called RRR, with Zulum as the pioneer commissioner. It is certainly not yet Uhuru for virtually all these communities in terms of their resettlement and rehabilitation in sufficiently reconstructed homes. This situation also poses a tall challenge for Zulum. Professor Zulum is already armed with a 10-point plan as his potent weapon of combating the challenges before him to govern the state well and transit it to prosperity. He is, however, faced with re-orientating the Borno population towards appreciating his plans for the state, and identifying with him to help him work for them. How Shettima showcased Zulum, his gov’ship candidate in Borno - Gusau PDP, others not ready for good fight in Borno Borno APC guber primaries: 14 out of 20 aspirants uphold Professor Zulum's victory