Mr Labaran Maku, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship candidate in Nasarawa state has promised to deal with systemic corruption in governance, if elected governor of the state. Mr Maku made the promise during news conference in Lafia on Wednesday. The governorship candidate, who noted that systemic corruption in governance had eaten deep into the fabrics of Nasarawa state, promised to deal with it by instituting strong policy. Maku said the systemic corruption was responsible for all the challenges facing Nasarawa state. “There are a lot corruption going on in this state. “I will deal with systemic corruption in governance by instituting strong policies in governance, to govern is a call to serve not the other way round,” he said. Maku, who noted that Nasarawa state as was characterised by killings, said he would offer security to the people of the state. The governorship candidate also said he would pay special attention to education at all levels, rural health and agriculture in the state if given the mandate to govern the state, come March 9 polls. “I am going to invest in education at all level, rural health and agriculture, the era where pupils and students are sitting on bare floor will be over soon.” On business environment, the governorship candidate said his administration would stop the era of collecting percentage from investors, both national and international, before allowing them to do business. He added the practice drove away many investors from investing in the state. On March 9 polls, Maku said he was most confidence to win the governorship seat, given the assurance and supports by the people that, “this elections is not about political parties but personality.“ “By our own assessment, we have no doubt that we win this election, my confidence has been strengthenedg by the people’s assurance and support. “People are saying that this election is not about political parties but personality, we have done our part by going to the nooks and crannies of this state and got the peoples’ assurance and support for APGA.” (NAN) APGA promises new dawn in Nasarawa Maku tasks INEC on credible poll Maku advises electorate against violence