A former governor of Oyo state, Senator Rasidi Ladoja, and four gubernatorial candidates in the state have endorsed the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Seyi Makinde, for Saturday’s gubernatorial election. The candidates made the declaration at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) secretariat, Iyaganku in Ibadan on Tuesday. They include the candidates of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Akogun Sarafadeen Alli; African Democratic Party, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin; Social Democratic Party (SDP), Bolaji Ayorinde; and New Progressive Movement (NPM), Edward Ladoye. The gubernatorial candidate of ADC, Olufemi Lanlehin who spoke on behalf of other candidates said the idea of the coalition was made to restore the pride, progress and prosperity of the state. He said: “it is a statement of fact that the people of Oyo state have been subjected to maladministration for the past eight years. “We are respective governorship candidates of our individual political parties. We officially agree and wholeheartedly accept the coalition of the opposition parties. “In equal measure, we endorsed Engr. Seyi Makinde as sole candidate of the coalition. Though, it is a difficult decision considering our contributions to our various ambitions in our various parties, no sacrifice is too much for the liberation of our state and the emancipation of our people. This vision is in the interest of the people.” However, while encouraging the people of Oyo state to vote for PDP in the gubernatorial election, Lanlehin stressed that the coalition is solely for the governorship election and does not apply to the House of Assembly elections. In his remark, Makinde, who is the sole gubernatorial candidate of the coalition and PDP’s governorship candidate, promised not to betray the intention of the coalition. He said “History is actually been made here today. This is the political capital of Nigeria, not only South West. We have gathered to rescue our people with a common purpose. “It’s been a very hard period to negotiate this arrangement. I promise that the intent of our coming together will be fully implemented when I become governor. “I am humbled, because all these gentlemen that stepped down for me are more qualified. As our people go out to vote on Saturday, two things are to be noted. “Two Saturdays ago, the people of Oyo South rejected Governor Ajimobi. The entire people of Oyo should also reject him, because Bayo Adelabu is the third term agenda of Ajimobi.” Oyo 2019: A clash of gladiators Ibadan mogajis decry too many gov’ship candidates in Oyo Oyo PDP, ADC governorship candidates, others lament over faulty card readers, lack of security