Prominent political leaders across the country had promised huge votes for President Muhammadu Buhari, with some of them completely ruling out any room for the opposition. Weeks to the conduct of the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections which saw President Muhammadu Buhari emerging as winner, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State had promised five million votes for the president. However, Ganduje was able to produce only 1.4 million votes to Buhari, recording a whopping 3.6m deficit. The 1.4m votes recorded came from the 1.9 million accredited voters in the state during the Feb. 23 elections. Kano has a total of 5.4 million registered voters, according to INEC records. Kano state has been the political stronghold of President Buhari since he joined politics in 2003. Since then, the state has been producing the highest number of votes for him irrespective of the political party he belonged to. For instance, in 2015, out of the 4,943,862 registered voters, 2,364,434 were accredited and a total of 1,903,000 votes went to Buhari, according to INEC records. The inability of Governor Ganduje to “deliver” the promise he made had elicited comments in both the mainstream and social media; with many commentators saying Ganduje was just hyperbolic. Abdullahi Yunusa, a student at Bayero University, Kano, said “There was never a time any candidate got up to five million votes in state, including Kano, so Ganduje was just optimistic that he would deliver Buhari,” he said. “And I think he did because Buhari got the highest number of votes from Kano…Politicians are in love with hyperbol just to impress their followers,” he added. Ganduje while addressing journalists in Abuja, shortly after a visit to congratulate President Buhari, attributed his failure to produce the 5 million votes he promised to low turnout of voters during the presidential poll. He said although Kano could not produce the five million votes as promised, he said it gave Buhari the highest number of votes during poll. Alhaji Aminu Ibrahim, an eligible voter and diehard supporter of Buhari, said in as much as Buhari would remain in politics, Kano people would never be tired of casting their votes for him irrespective of the political party he may contest. He said, “The people of Kano love Buhari so much and they always support his candidature. I can assure you the political support Buhari is enjoying in Kano is far more than the support he is getting from the people of Katsina, his home state.” Ibrahim added that Buhari should have gotten more than 1.4 million votes in Kano during the last presidential election if not because of the low turnout of voters. Another voter, Muhammad Abubakar Dakata, said he was not surprised with the number of votes the president got in Kano, empathising that “Had it been the number of voters accredited were more than 1.9m, the president could have gotten more than the number of votes he got,” he said. “From the look of things, the APC has no problem in Kano as far as gubernatorial election is concerned. The governor has exhibited high level of commitment to the progress of the state and he is living in peace with virtually all sets of people that always determine who is to be governor of the state,” he said.  Not 2.8m in Katsina Despite failing to reach its target of 2.8m votes for President Buhari,  the APC in the state said it still fulfilled and satisfied with its outing at last week polls. Buhari polled 1,232,133 votes, the second highest from across the 36 states of the federation. In 2015 general election, Buhari got 1,348,441 votes. In a telephone interview, the Zonal Vice Chairman of the party, Bala Abu Musawa, said the shortfall in number of voters was a sign of improved electoral processes on the part of INEC. He said a clear example of this was the votes that came from Rivers in the past. “But look at what happened this time around, both the APC and PDP got far less than what they used to get in all the geo-political zones; this shows that INEC has further improved the system to check malpractices,” he said. “If another election were to take place today, I am sure the number will further drop due to upgrading of the card reader and the general process,” he said. “This1. 2m votes from Katsina is worth over 10m votes because it places us as second in the federation and a fulfilment of our promises to the president to deliver, “ he said. However, the opposition PDP in Katsina State discredited the 1.2m votes declared for Buhari. Chairman of the party, Salisu Majigiri, said the votes were over bloated and the party will challenge it. Ahead of the polls, political observers had predicted a drop in votes which will be as result of banditry especially in 9 local government areas of the state located close to Rugu forest. Another factor was that PDP’s candidate Atiku Abubakar has long political ties with Katsina, dating back to late Shehu Yar’adua who introduced him to politics. Ethnicity and religious barriers were not there like in 2015 when Buhari contested against ex- President Goodluck Jonathan.  3m votes eluded Tinubu Findings reveal that APC national leader, Sen. Bola Tinubu was also not happy for not giving President Buhari the 3m votes he promised. Less than a week to the elections, Tinubu who spent most of his time in Lagos gave directive to party leaders to ensure the re-election of Buhari with a wide margin. Tinubu who spoke mainly in Yoruba at a meeting of party stalwarts, said, “You must deliver at least 3million votes or more to the president to show that the whole state is firmly for him. “I have been made the co-Chairman of the APC presidential campaign committee because of the trust in me and party members to always deliver votes. “We should justify that trust and give our best for Buhari and Osinbajo on Saturday, he said. However, analysts believed it was a bad outing for Buhari in Lagos because he only secured 580,825 votes to defeat Atiku who scored 448,015 votes.  Yobe: From 98 to 88.3 per cent votes for Buhari Yobe State, a homogeneous enclave, had garnered winning votes for President Buhari in 2015 and 2019, respectively. In 2015, the electoral fortress had polled 446, 265 votes for President Buhari, which constituted 98 per cent of the total votes cast. And during the Feb. 23 presidential election,  Buhari garnered 497,914 votes, approximately 88.4 per cent of total votes cast in the state. Looking at the percentage, Buhari who is highly revered in Yobe, indirectly got less votes but higher in terms of the number of votes cast by the electorate. Governor Ibrahim Gaidam had during the presidential campaign rally at the popular August 27 Stadium, in Damaturu, promised to canvass for the remaining 2 per cent of the votes Buhari missed in 2015, so that the president would get100 per cent  in Yobe State. But in terms of overall success, it appears Yobe fared better when compared with the results of 2015. Governor Gaidam and the APC had succeeded in reclaiming senatorial and House of Representative seats won by the PDP in Yobe South Senatorial district. For now, there is no single seat occupied by the opposition in the state. Many people believed that attacks by the Boko Haram insurgents in Buni Yadi and Geidam town on the eve and the day of the elections were responsible for the percentage decline. Malam Muhammad Sarkin Aska said in Buni alone, over 50,000 voters were disenfranchised due to last hour shift of the election venue to Damaturu. “Many aggrieved voters boycotted the election due to distance; many could not make it to Damaturu,” he said. “In Geidam, the insurgents forced people to flee though some had returned later but the turnout was not encouraging,” he said. However, political analysts said that the voting pattern this time around had affected the target set by the governor to produce the hundred percent votes. “What the governor promised was just a political statement because100 per cent votes is unrealistic,” said Malam Lawan Cheri. “In every voting process, some votes must be invalid, and Atiku being a Muslim from the Northeast, he must have a share from the votes and that’s what happened,” he said. Another analyst observed that the votes that Atiku got spread across all the seventeen local government areas of Yobe State. “This is to tell you that there are PDP supporters in the state; only that the party is faced with internal rancour that cost their seats. “But for the crisis in Yobe South, Atiku would have garnered more votes but certainly not enough to give him a win,” he said. Fact Check:  Ganduje cannot deliver 5m votes for Buhari Fierce contest for PDP as it tests APC dominance in Kano Why I couldn’t deliver 5m votes to Buhari – Ganduje