Peacock Aviation and Allied Services Limited in collaboration with Turkish Airlines Cargo has agreed to deliver efficient and on time cargo services in order to boost Nigeria’s airfreight subsector. The strategic partnership with the Turkish mega carrier follows yearlong negotiations, which culminated in the appointment of Peacock Aviation as its Sole Appointed Cargo Agent across the Nigerian territory, it was gathered. The deal guarantees shippers in Nigeria the lowest possible air freight rates on a wide range of general and special goods on the airline’s vast global route network. A statement indicated that the Executive Chairman of Peacock Aviation, Aare S.P. Phillips, led the partnership which was unveiled on March 12, while the Turkish Airlines team was led by the General Manager, Lagos, Mr. Yunus Ozbek in the presence of representative of Wema Bank Plc, who are the financial partners to the deal. Announcing the partnership, Phillips said, “This partnership was made in heaven specifically with our customers in mind. We want to enhance their airfreight experience in a consistent and sustainable way. “Peacock Aviation and Turkish Airlines bring immense strategic values to the table: we have a large customer base and a strong presence across Nigeria while Turkish Airlines boasts a vast global route network, high technology equipment, and huge capacity to handle all sizes, nature and types of cargo worldwide. It’s a win-win for everyone, particularly our customers.” On his part, Turkish Airlines General Manager, Lagos, Mr. Yunus Ozbek, said, “We have a longstanding relationship with Peacock, which is a very professional company. That’s very important for us because Turkish Airlines is the flag carrier of Turkish Republic, with 40 per cent owned by the Turkish government for the Turkish people while 50 per cent is in the open market for everybody. We also have a lot of investors from all over the world. That gives us a lot of responsibilities.” Cronos Airlines begin Lagos-Douala-Malabo flights Issues as Oduah appears before senators The case for new airports