*appeals judgement on Kano guber candidate The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at its expanded national caucus meeting on Monday resolved to sue the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) and President Muhammadu Buhari this week. The party said its team of lawyers were set to file the suit challenging results of the presidential election held on February 23, which saw candidate of the  APC, Buhari declared winner by the INEC. Addressing a press conference at the end of the meeting which lasted for over four hours, today in Abuja, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “Our party and candidate have resolved to seek legal redress on the stolen mandate.” He said, “If it is true that President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC won this election, what is scaring them? Why are they afraid of coming to the tribunal? They should come to the tribunal and present to the Justices how they won the election. “For us in the PDP and for our candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, our lawyers have been properly briefed and as well they are set to file at the tribunal and we will surely do that. “Nobody can intimidate our party; nobody will intimidate our candidate not to follow what the law provides for. We will do everything within the law to make sure that this stolen mandate is retrieved.” The party also said it concluded plans to petition the United Nations (UN) and other global democratic entities over militarisation of elections by the ruling APC in the country with specific emphasis on the February 23 presidential poll and next Saturday’s governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections. The PDP spokesman said,” The caucus reviewed the situation in Kano state particularly as it concerned the court decision and noted that an appeal had been filed against the judgement and we will continue to study and follow the situation as they arise.” On the forthcoming governorship election, the party decried what it termed the militarisation of the South South and “the rigging which the APC is plotting ahead of the election.” 2015 Political Events in Retrospective 19 and 20 Niger PDP in limbo over senate seat verdict