The governor of Imo state and chairman of the Progressives Governors’ Forum, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has absolved President Muhammadu Buhari of any blame in his suspension by Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Okorocha said in Owerri on Sunday that “Buhari is too decent and cannot be part of Mr. Adams Oshiomhole’s appetite for lawlessness, especially in running the affairs of the All Progressives Congress, APC.” Okorocha said that Oshiomhole has done so many strange things with the party and it would be wrong for anybody to think that President Buhari known for his penchant for decency, honesty and forthrightness would be on the same page with him. He said, “The National Chairman of the Party has told the world that he wants to ensure party’s supremacy and he has been doing so to the best of his ability, because from all indications he has his own idea of party’s supremacy. “Oshiomhole’s idea of party’s supremacy could be the purported suspension of two governors on the platform of the party few days after the Presidential and National Assembly elections in which the party did well without any contribution from him. “The President was voted by Nigerians across the geo-political zones because he has proved to be real and can be trusted. When he said I am fighting corruption, you see it happening. It cannot be the same thing with someone who sold the tickets of the party to the highest bidders.” Okorocha said he was yet to see any Nigerian living who would have defeated President Buhari in that election, stressing that the president has earned the confidence and trust of most Nigerians. “In other words, the President has nothing to do with Oshiomhole’s disdain for the right actions and the chairman’s charity for lawlessness and total disregard for the party’s constitution,” he added. Oshiomhole behaving like opposition party’s spokesman –Okorocha Okorocha tackles Oshiomhole over Obasanjo Call Oshiomhole to order, Okorocha tells Buhari