Political actors in Kano State have resorted to buying of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) from potential voters ahead of the re-run governorship election slated for March 23. Elections will hold in 172 polling units across the 44 local government areas of the state. Already, police authorities have confirmed the arrest of five suspects over alleged buying of voters’ cards ahead of the supplementary election. The spokesman of the command, who confirmed the development to our correspondent, said the suspects were arrested at the controversial Gama Ward of Nassarawa Local Government Area. Gama Ward has been the centre of attraction for the two political parties in the re-run, APC and PDP, with each trying to secure more votes from the area following the alleged destruction of results of the ward in last Saturday’s election by some thugs. Addressing the press, yesterday, at Bompai Police headquarters, the spokesman of the command, Abdullahi Haruna, said “Based on credible information two women, namely Sa’adatu Ismail 39 years old of Brigade Qtrs and Hajiya Halima Abba 55 years of Tal’udu Qrts Kano were arrested while purchasing Permanent Voters Cards from unsuspecting voters at Gama Qrts. Nassarawa LGA at prices ranging from N500 and above. He said eight PVCs and N10,000 were recovered from the suspects. The PPRO also confirmed the arrest of two other suspects identified as Mukhtar Suleman and Idris Dankanawa both of Gama ‘A’ Qrts. in Nassarawa LGA. He said the duo were arrested on suspicion of PVC purchase in their neighbourhood at Gama Qtrs. He said the suspects were rescued by the police from mob action by youth who observed their movements. “One Mukhtar Shuaibu aka Ustaz of Dandinshe Gabas, Dala LGA Kano was also arrested for the offence of PVC buying,” he said. He said the suspect confessed to have purchased two PVCs for N3000 at Dandinshe Qtrs. Haruna said investigation had commenced after which the suspects would to be charged to court for prosecution. It could be recalled that INEC on Monday declared the March 9 election inconclusive on the basis that the margin of votes between Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of the APC and Engr. Abba Kabir Yusuf of PDP was less than the number of rejected votes as contained in sections 26 and 53 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). Kano re-run: Politicians resort to vote buying Kano governorship poll inconclusive, INEC says Violence, apathy mar polls