Yobe State governor-elect, Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has warned gossip and rumour mongers to steer clear as he will not condone any of them in his administration. Delivering his acceptance speech at the government house Damaturu, yesterday, the governor-elect said he would not betray the confidence reposed in him. Buni said Governor Ibrahim Gaidam picked him out of conviction to fly the party’s flag so as to build on his achievements and continue with all the developmental projects he had started. “It all sounds as a mirage when HE Governor Gaidam promised to build a cargo airport for the state; but today, I can assure you that in six months to come, planes would start flying from the airport. “Your Excellency Sir, you take good care of our mothers by providing free treatment to pregnant women, children under 5 years, accident victims and free dialysis to Yobe kidney patients. I would build on all these projects and continue to change lives of people in the state,” he added. He explained that it was only in Yobe State that government was up-to-date in the payment of salaries, pension and gratuity without loan from any financial institution. He commended Governor Gaidam for his leadership prowess that gave the enabling environment for a rancor-free election with landslide victory to the party and its candidates at all levels. Mala Buni, therefore, pleaded with the outgoing governor to allow him rely on his (Gaidam’s) wealth of experience and guidance to consolidate and ensure continuity of his laudable achievements. To those who did not vote for him, Buni said “the elections are over and we still remain the good people of Yobe State. I extend hands of fellowship to every one of you to join hands with me and contribute meaningfully to the development of our state.” In his remarks, Governor Gaidam who is now a senator-elect, commended the campaign organisation for delivering the state to APC at all levels. He expressed optimism that the selection of the governor- elect was in the interest of the state, assuring that Mai Mala Buni would not betray the trust reposed in him. “For me as a senator-elect, my work has been reduced; but we will collectively pursue the interest of the state with passion to improve the lives of our people,” he added. Gossip merchants have no business in Yobe - Governor elect Why Gaidam picked me as his successor Yobe gov’ship:  APC chieftains, groups urge aspirants to support Buni