Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello and the federal government have been commended for the ongoing works on the Minna-Suleja road. The commendations were made by  motorists and commuters plying the road in an interview with North Central Trust. The Suleja-Minna road is a 40 kilometers dual carriage way connecting Abuja and Niger state and also links North West part of the country with Nigeria’s capital city. The federal government under former president Goodluck Jonathan kicked off the dualization of the road but the work which commenced since 2010,  stalled due to non-release of fund by government. The federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari then ordered the rehabilitation of the failing part of the road. However, with the slow pace of works on the road, the state government also decided to intervene from Kakaki to Lambata where the federal government’s rehabilitation work is expected to terminate. The Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Danjuma Salau, said the state government decided to go for the reconstruction of the road after its initial efforts at rehabilitation failed. North Central Trust reports that following the interventions, the road is now passable with commuters and motorists appreciating both governments for the efforts. Malam Abdullahi Fagae, a truck driver, who stopped over at the Lambata section of the road, particularly lauded the state government for embarking on full scale reconstruction, adding that the initiative has made the section of the road from Kakaki to Lambata more durable. He urged the federal government to release fund for the dualization of the road which it earlier started but stopped midway. He also called on the government to reimburse the state government the amount it spent on the road to enable it intervene in others. Also, a commercial bus driver, Moshood Lateef and some commuters interviewed by our correspondent at the Abdulsalam Motor Park in Minna commended both the federal and state governments for fixing the road which has been hitherto deplorable and claimed many lives. They urged the governments to give same attention to other critical roads which are also in bad state such as the Minna-Bida road; Bida-Lapai-Lambata; Tegina-Kaduna and Kontagora-Rijau roads amongst others.  Niger to spend N3bn on Minna-Suleja road If we are to get more roads in Niger My nightmare on Suleja – Minna road