…As 227 indigent students get scholarship The 13th Governing Council of Bayero University, Kano has at its 6th regular meeting held on Thursday, March 7, 2019 approved the promotion of 36 professors and 40 associate professors. A statement by the university’s Registrar and Secretary to the Council, Hajiya Fatima Binta Mohammed, said all appointments took effect from October 2018. Eight others were non-teaching staff promoted to the ranks of deputy registrars, deputy bursar, deputy directors and assistant chief technician respectively, the statement added. Among the newly promoted professors are: Dr Basheer Abdulkadir Zubair Chedi, now Professor of Phamacology and Therapeutics; and Dr. Musa Aliyu, Professor of Pharmacology; Dr Ibrahim Magaji Barde, branch chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), BUK chapter, Professor of Accounting. Others are Professor Kabiru Tahir Hamid (Accounting and Finance), Dr. Ahmad Magaji of the Department of Nigerian Languages and Dr. Ya’u Haruna Usman, who is now Professor of Adult Education. Three of the newly promoted professors who are females, are Professor Dije Muhammad Sulaiman (Accounting); Professor Hannatu Sabo Ahmad (Accounting) and Professor Amina Mustapha (Agric Economics and Extension), who is the Deputy Director, Outreach and Publications of the Centre for Dryland Agriculture (CDA). Also promoted to the rank of professor are Dr Abubakar Jika Jiddare, (International Relations); Dr Lofty-John Chukwuemeka Anyanwu (Surgery); Dr Emmanuel S. Kolo (Otorhinolarygology); and Dr. Muhammed Haruna Awaisu (Sociology). In another development, a total of 227 students of the BUK have received indigent scholarship awards of N50, 000 each for the 2018/2019 academic session. The indigent scholarship awards are issued annually by some philanthropic individuals and organizations. Those financing the scholarship include Alhaji Sabitu Muhammad Jifatu, CEO Jifatu Enterprises; Abdulmunaf Yunusa Sarina, CEO Azman Air; and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), national body and Bayero University, Kano chapter, among others, to enable less privileged students pay their registration fees.  Northwest university promotes over 200 staff Uniabuja promotes six PhD holders, 83 others UniJos promotes 400 staff