At last, the highly self-assertive Farooq Kperogi failed in his wild goose chase to stop President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term election. Farooq as a social media influencer had exposed all his grammatical know-how against President Buhari, but yet failed to stop his re-election. As an avid follower of Farooq Kperogi in both print and online media outlets, I can vividly recall that haunting for President Buhari’s shortcomings was one of Kperogi’s biggest past time. Farooq, as it was known by many, had frequently defied objectivity. While one needs to be objective when speaking to public, as they are at liberty to make their respective arguments. To be blunt, this is why at times, I laughed at Kperogi’s plane-load barrage of criticisms. It fell short of civil and subjective-free analysis. He didn’t fact-check, verify before spreading. More appalling was, if found to be false, he wouldn’t retract and apologize. Interestingly, Buhari’s popularity shredded Kperogi’s projections into pieces. Remember, he projected Atiku as winner of the presidential election. That’s why, his outright, biased remarks cost him his space in Daily Trust Newspaper. Because he failed to live up to Media Trust’s standard. All in his terrier chase to scuttle Buhari’s second term ambition, Kperogi caught on many occasions spreading lies and fake news. These consist of spreading poor conditioned, wretched Hausa Kannywood actors’ images to portray them as troops fighting Boko Haram in Maiduguri. You can’t expect a media magnet like Farooq Kperogi to base his assertions on unverified social media gossips. In a nutshell, whenever you come across Kprerogi’s outbursts, you must say that decency and decorum is at its lowest ebb. His remarks were always marked by extreme indecency. Therefore, this raises questions about his commitments to the ideals and doctrines of his media credentials. The best Kperogi can do when you caution him, or more so, drawn his attention to its falsity is to block you from gaining access to his social media handles. Kperogi is good at spewing whatever gibberish to Buhari’s government, but so amazing indeed, he didn’t like people to express their suggestions, viewpoints in his social media blogs. Unless if you will concur with his opinion. But to argue, is where you will part ways with Kperogi. In sum, you must go with whatever he agrees with if you want to keep a space in his media accounts. To be frank, I can boldly testify to this fact for being a victim of Farooq Kperogi’s blocking spree. I was blocked by him when I urged him to exercise restraint. Sadly, Kperogi created for himself a reputation of know all. And based on what the wise men said: “He who does not know and claims to know is a fool”.  Abbas Datti, Kano. Integrity without credibility In celebration of good riddance Re: Garba Shehu, Presidential Villa rodents and bad PR