The Lagos state Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide Idris, on Friday said all survivors of the collapsed building which occurred last Wednesday at Ita-Faaji in Lagos are stable and responding to medical treatment. Speaking during his visit to the survivors at the General Hospital in Lagos Island today, the Commissioner reinstated the Governor’s instruction that medical care will be at no charge to the affected families. “I’m delighted to note that the survivors of the unfortunate incident are calm, stable and responding to medical treatment and in no time, some of them who are certified and cleared will be discharged to join their families. “Lagos state is offering comprehensive healthcare to the victims at no cost. This is the least we can do at this time to ameliorate the suffering and trauma being experienced by the affected families,” he said. On the allegation that some of the patients are being requested to pay for medical treatments, Idris refuted this noting that investigations have revealed that these are false claims, probably cooked up by unscrupulous individuals for the sake of sensationalism. “The allegation that affected people are paying for the comprehensive healthcare offered to survivors is false and baseless,” he said. He however warned concerned and affected families to beware of people of doubtful characters posing as health workers who may want to take advantage of their vulnerability and anxiety at this period. He further reiterated the utmost commitment of the state government in ensuring a zero fatality of those who were rescued alive. He assured that the state government will leave no stone unturned in giving quality healthcare to Lagosians regardless of age, religious, gender or ethnic affiliations. He also put on record his condolences to the families bereaved by this sad incident saying, “I want to commiserate with the families of those who lost their lives in this collapse building. I want to quickly let Lagosians know that this is quite an unfortunate incident.” Lagos collapsed building: Hundreds turn up for blood donation Lagosians donate blood for survivors of building collapse We lost everything in building collapse – Survivors -