Hajiya Zainab Ujudud Sharif, the Head of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicine at the Federal Ministry of Health speaks on this year’s IWD celebration where she emphasis the role of women in family health.  What do you think Nigeria should know about this department and how did you come about it? As far back as 20 years ago, the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended three types of healthcare system, the orthodox which is what almost everyone knows and it is with international standard practice, traditional medicine, the medicine of the black people and complementary medicine. That means, these are the three aspect of medicine that are recognised because they realised that in the aspect of traditional medicine, over 70 percent of our populace patronise that aspect. For me, being a pharmacist, gave me a good background and a platform to look at the traditional medicine aspect. I don’t want people to have  the common knowledge of associating traditional medicine with fetish. It has so many components and out of it we look at the one that have sense in it. For instance, 40-45 percent of the orthodox medicines you get from the hospitals are from plants and they were informed by traditional medicine practitioners and that is what lead to discovery of some of the drugs we use today. It means we need them to know drugs and you need them to know how to use these drugs. One of the factors we should consider as black Africans is that, God blessed us with so many resources without us knowing the natural purpose and part of these resources is medicinal plants. In Nigeria we have over 8,000 species, we have not even utilise 10 percent out of it.  The painful thing is that we are waiting for the developed country to come and discover them for us because if they say no drugs, we believe them, if they say there are drugs we believe them forgetting that we are blessed with what we can use. Looking at the history of our forefathers, they were treating their people and they didn’t die young, most of them have longevity. What is the difference, all we need to do is to find out why they were using natural plants to treat ailments and they were  better off. It means God has provided those things for us to use in case of anything. If we must say it right, it is not everybody in our locality that has access to modern drugs and those that  have may not be able to afford the treatment but we always have access to natural plants. When I did the scientific research I discovered the green plants around me have the ability to boost the blood and tone the organs and because of the body’s capacity to heal itself, that process which our parents were doing is a scientific term called, dyphoterism. When you perspire that means they are ready to tone and fight the foreigner and also fight against the parasite that may want to cause any problem to your body system.  What change have you been able to effect from the inception of this department till now? From a division to a department we have been able to come up with a policy on traditional medicine and we have what we call herbal pharmaco-cial, this is  the list of plants that are in indigenous group that can be made available to people to understand  the plants. It is referenced document even in the area of documentation and commercialisation. Anyone that understands the document can go into commercialisation. What people don’t  also understand is that medicinal plants are also an area we can call a part of diversification of agriculture because we also cultivate those plants and  this area through value chain can generate job creation, wealth creation and environmental improvement can be improved take for example, moringa plant. It has great impart, health, economic value, and so on. When you use a plant for herbal remedy you further expose it to research. If we don’t promote complementary and traditional medicine, Nigeria cannot be effectively well taking care of in terms of healthcare delivery.  In this world of drug resistance diseases, do you think alternative medicine have a role to play? Of course, that is very strategic and that is what we are saying. To be specific, we said chloroquine causes resistance but my own analysis is, we are only interested in fighting the parasite? The secret of managing malaria comes in various ways which natural medicine does, you can kill the malaria, boost the immunity of the person, you strengthen immunity by detoxing, it is like cleaning a gutter when it is full for easy flow of water. The Chinese says, “Disease starts in the stomach” and that is why we must detox. We have started and we appreciate the Minister, Federal Ministry of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole for his support. The department was approved June last year but we have done a lot and I am in the fore front.  What role should women play in Family health? This is very important, Women have key role in promoting healthy living in our societies. When you look back to our parents, they eat very healthy foods, mostly green leaves, and this cut across all the regions in the country, but women these days are cooking all manner of junk foods at homes, using plenty seasoning and applying it wrongly. We need to support our husbands and children with natural foods so that they can be healthy to keep the home. ‘How I learned to cure ailments using herbs’ Why locals still use traditional medicine in villages ‘Agbo’ takes over medicine cabinets