The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has cautioned against the planned increase of Value Added Tax (VAT) by the Federal Government. NECA is the umbrella body of the organized private sector and the voice of business in Nigeria. The Federal Government had on Tuesday indicated that it might increase VAT to enable it pay the minimum wage, which has recently been passed by the National Assembly. But NECA in its reaction through its director-general, Mr Timothy Olawale, noted, yesterday, that the planned increase would erode the gains of minimum wage for low earners, and further weaken their purchasing power, among others. Speaking in Lagos, the NECA boss lamented that the planned increase of VAT would have far-reaching implications for manufacturers, businesses and consumers alike, stressing that manufacturers and businesses are already saddled with several challenges, such as infrastructural decay and poor power supply. “Some companies are closing shop due to some of these challenges while others are still struggling to stay afloat. The proposed increase in VAT would definitely lead to an increase in the cost of doing business, and would likely be passed to the consumers whose purchasing power is already weak,” he said Olawale also opined that government does not have to increase VAT in order to pay minimum wage, emphasizing that in the event that government must increase VAT against the will of the people, it should be limited to luxury or ostentatious goods only. He faulted the comparison of VAT rates with other countries as being irrelevant due to the fact that business operating conditions in those climes are more clement than what obtains in Nigeria. As a way out, the NECA boss aligned with the recommendation of the Chairman of FIRS, Mr. Babatunde Fowler, that there should be more individual and corporate entities captured in the tax net paying VAT. He said: “Reduce its recurrent expenditure, cost of governance, widen the tax net in its bid to generate more revenue and ensure effective collection of taxes from non-compliant citizens or defaulters,” he stated. Fowler urged that government should not burden businesses with taxes, rather it should create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and continue to contribute to the growth of the nation. Nigeria’s employers’ union warns FG on VAT hike Broaden revenue base for new minimum wage to work - Employers tell FG NECA wants government to do more for businesses to thrive