The Sustainable Democracy Agenda (SUDA), a political pressure group has commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for endorsing Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan as president of the ninth Senate. A statement by the convener of the group, Ibrahim Haruna Usman said the timely intervention of the leadership of the APC in charting a direction for the emergence of presiding officers for the National Assembly is a welcome development. The statement said “As a group that is interested in the growth of democracy all over Africa, SUDA commends the proactive approach of the Oshiomhole led APC, which has been endorsed by Mr. President in ensuring that lawmakers elected on the platform of the majority party avoid a division that could be devastating to the progress of democracy and good governance in Nigeria. “By this decision the party has effectively moved away from the indecision of 2015, which led to the power tussle that affected the productivity of the present Senate. We call on the APC leadership reign in all its senators-elect through sustained dialogue towards actualization of this resolution. “The APC should also monitor the activities of any member of the party that may seek to jeopardize its resolve at leveraging on its majority in the legislature, which could adversely affect the delivery of President Buhari’s ‘Next Level’ agenda. SUDA is against any move at reenacting the 2015 scenario, which didn’t augur well for growth of democracy in the country.” SUDA also called on the APC anointed candidate, Senator Ahmed Lawan not to relent in reaching out to all senators-elect including those of the opposition towards engendering a stable and democratically productive ninth Senate. “We urge all incoming senators to key into the Lawan Project and own it, as a way of creating a united atmosphere needed for actualization of their collective and individual legislative agenda. Rebellion as has been seen in the eight Senate only lead to self-destruct and institutional regression,” the group said. Buhari meets APC govs, leaders as Tambuwal returns to PDP Oshiomhole dismisses members of R-APC Group urges senators-elect to support Lawan for Senate president