Dr Jamilu Gwamna, the Managing Director, Kano Distribution Company of Nigeria (KEDCO) has commended the Federal Government for improving in power generation in the country. Gwamna gave the commendation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe on Monday. The KEDCO boss, who said he was in Gombe to exercise his civic responsibility in the just concluded polls, said power generation was at its all-time best due to such effort. He said that if what was being generated was exhaustively distributed, power supply would improve greatly across the country. Gwamna noted that there was deliberate effort by the present administration in the country to improve power generation since its inception in 2015, a move he noted had yielded fruit in 1,000MW yearly. He noted that for Nigeria to develop its industrial and manufacturing sectors to achieve economic diversification in the country and reduce unemployment, government must be improved and sustained. “For the first time, we are having our generated power at an all-time best. What is being generated today has never been generated before in this country. This is commendable. “If what is now being generated is successfully distributed to every household in the country, there will be improved power supply across the country. “There has been conscious effort by the Federal Government to improve the power sector, knowing full well that it holds the key to our economic diversification plan and reduction in youth unemployment. “We know of on-going efforts by the World Bank and the Federal Government to ensure enough investment in downstream (distribution), network stability and provision of more transformers to address the lingering crisis in the power sector. “Yearly, 1000MW is being added to the national grid and if government sustains that, then our industrialisation and improvement of the manufacturing sector will be on course,’’ he said. The managing director appealed for more investment in transmission to ensure exhaustive distribution of power generated,to meet the purpose of its generation. He called on electricity consumers to always pay their bills to keep the distribution companies in business, adding that DisCos must make consumer satisfaction their priority. (NAN) KEDCO lauds FG, says power sector reforms growing small-scale industries KEDCO@ 5: Achievements, challenges and future plans KEDCO CEO gets Verdant Zeal’s special impact award