A famous Kano based Qur’anic reciter, Sheikh Ahmad Sulaiman, and five others kidnapped by gunmen on March 14 on the Sheme-Kankara Road in Katsina State have been rescued. The six kidnapped clerics, who are members of Jamatu Izalatul Bidaa Wa Ikamatus Sunna, were returning from a help group camp of the JIBWIS when they were kidnapped. The Brigade Commander, 17 Brigade, Nigeria Army LT. Lukman Omoniyi, while presenting them to journalists in Katsina yesterday, said a sustained covert surveillance and tactical lines of operations orchestrated in concurrency and in synchronization with relevant security agencies led to the rescue as directed by the Chief of Army Staff . “These efforts have finally led to the rescue of the kidnapped victims by 0058 hours earlier today.  It is of great interest that as we speak, the rescued clerics are intact in good health condition as ascertained by the medical examination already conducted on them at 17 Brigade Medical Centre. “Our synergy and collaboration with relevant security agencies remains the indispensable force enabler in this context.  It is therefore expedient to further encourage the law abiding civil populace in Katsina State never to relent in providing the Brigade quality cooperation and timely information needed for us to remain proactive as we discharge our security obligations” he said Speaking, Sulaiman described his experience in captivity as bitter. He said: “it is a bitter experience to be kidnapped and stay in the hands of these bandits for more than 10 day. I is not something easy; the experience was bitter, but I thank Allah I’m freed now.” He thanked the army and relevant security agencies that had inputs in the operation that led to his freedom as well as the Muslim ummah “for their tireless efforts, days and nights to see me out of captivity.” He said the captors threatened to kill them. “Every day, they told us that since authorities had joined, even if the ransom demanded was paid, they would kill us. Every day, we got threatened. They would keep firing guns in our presence. These kids would be crying; while I consoled them; sometimes, it was the other way round, they would point guns at us, singing and smoking cannabis. We didn’t sleep, sometimes, they denied us food and water,” he said. How we rescued Sheikh Ahmad Suleiman – Army Famous Kano Qur'anic reciter kidnapped Renowned Kano Qur’anic reciter kidnapped