The Executive Secretary Nigerian Shippers Council NSC, Barrister Hassan Bello, in this exclusive interview, speaks on why the national fleet hasn’t come on stream, the limitations of the dry ports, and other industry matters. Excerpt:  Daily Trust: What’s the update on the Kaduna Dry Port? I heard it’s underutilized. Hassan Bello: You are right. The success of any dry port, in particular the Kaduna Dry Port, rests on the rail system working. Unfortunately, containers for imports are still being conveyed by trucks to Kaduna which makes it a little bit expensive. However, the Nigerian Railways Corporation (NRC) is about to provide locomotives and flat bed wagons for the conveyance of containers from the sea ports to Kaduna Dry Port. This will commence before the end of March for both imports and exports. Already, the Nigerian Shippers Council, the Kaduna ICN Limited, the Nigerian Customs Service and the NRC will meet in about a week’s time to see that there is seamless transport, conveyance and transfer of trailers. That will reduce the cost sharply. When that happens, you will see more containers coming to Kaduna at a very reasonable price. Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) is also working with the private sector to see that containers bound for Kaduna are tracked so that there wouldn’t be any diversion of cargo and loss of revenue. DT: The narrow gauge track from Lagos through Kaduna to Kano is sometimes not in good state. Has the NRC assured that the tracks are in good condition and that trains can move to Kaduna from Lagos without hitches? Bello: The train is very slow but we have to use what we have. There is always rehabilitation of the tracks but all of these concerns will be addressed at the meeting I spoke about. The most important thing is that the NRC is aware that it has a critical role to play for efficient imports and exports at the Kaduna Dry Port. If you go to the dry port now, activities have picked up. Banks are coming in and all the relevant regulatory agencies are there. The customs have been of tremendous assistance to the dry port. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has recognized the Kaduna Dry Port in their Form M for imports and exports. NEXIM Bank is carrying out a study to see how it can enhance the infrastructure. In addition, the Shippers Council and the National Orientation Agency (NOA) have a programme of sensitization for people to utilize the ports. We hope that things will get on well. The shipping companies will be issuing bills of laden to the port. Despite that, we have seen surge in export from Kaduna especially in ginger and cow horn. We hope to provide the inspection agencies in Kaduna so that there will be no need to inspect the goods from Kaduna when they are at the sea ports. All these are challenges but we will find solutions. DT: What’s the volume of cargo done so far at the Kaduna Dry Port and perhaps the cost too? Bello: From January to December 2018, it did 2,318 containers (20TEUs equivalent) with an average number of over 150 containers per month. The container traffic was slightly slow in the second quarter of the year due to Apapa gridlock, operational challenges and insecurity towards the fourth quarter of the year in Kaduna environment. The cost per container from Lagos to Kaduna by rail is about N300,000 as against N700,000 to N800,000 on the road. DT: The Jos Dry Port is also supposed to have taken off, what’s the update and the others? Bello: Jos and Funtua dry ports are likely to come on this year. They are likely to be commissioned. The state governments (Plateau and Katsina) have given tremendous support. We are discussing with new investors for the Jos Inland Container Deport (dry port). Jos is already 65 percent completed. The laying of the rail sidings to the port and the staking area will commence soon. This is the most critical issue. Everything is almost done. The new investor is to provide some technical and perhaps financial support to the indigenous support. DT: That takes us to the truck transit park. By now, at least that of Lokoja, Kogi State and Obollo-Afor, Enugu State should have been advertised for private sector investors. What’s happening? Bello: Just this week, the ICRC approved that the advertisements can start. We can now advertise for expression of interest for both Lokoja and Obollo-Afor. These two are to serve as pilot models. We should advertise by next week. I have to thank the governors of Enugu and Kogi States for the interests they have shown in the project. But I would like to use this opportunity to appeal to the Kogi State Government to pay the balance of the compensation so we can hand over the property to the concessionaires free from encumbrances. DT: I recall you head the committee that was working to revive the national fleet. It’s been about three years now, where are we? Not much has been heard about that. Bello: The National Fleet Implementation Committee is working so hard to deliver a sustainable national fleet. It is a fundamental economic project in which all indices must be considered. First of all, you have to look at laws and policies for even investors to come in. There are certain laws and policies that must change. There are incentives that must be provided and we are working on all those. We had addressed the vice president and the economic management team. After that, the VP directed the ministers of Finance and Trade and Investments to work with our committee through the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission, to look at the possible areas to prioritize. We are also working with the FIRS, Nigerian Customs Services, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, NIDAS Shipping Services (the Shipping Company of the NNPC) – all these organizations are now members of the committee. We are about to do something revolutionary – to change policy from Freight on Board (FOB) to Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIIF). This is being contemplated. We are about to get pioneer status and tax exemptions to invest in ship management and ship operations in Nigeria. I won’t give you the full package until we have done all due diligence. But the ministry of Budget and National Planning has included the National Fleet Implementation Committee in its budget because this is an issue of economic diversification. We want to incorporate our banks and insurance companies because of the local content requirement. This will further generate wealth and employment. We also need to carry out reforms in the ship registry in Nigeria. We want ships to be registered in Nigeria and carry the Nigerian flag. We also have to look at the nautical colleges like the Maritime Academy Oron to be sure the cadets have sufficient internationally acknowledged training and certification to work on the Nigerian ships. We have to look at ship building and ship maintenance yards. Of what use would it be if we have a national fleet but every repair has to go to other countries? So we are doing a comprehensive job so we can have an enduring national fleet to complement Nigeria’s trading economy. DT: I’m happy the national fleet dream is still alive because I recall the minister of transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, said whilst a foreign investor was ready to take up 40 percent equity in the national flight, no local investor could take the 60 percent equity reserved for Nigerian investors. Bello: Even the foreign investors who indicated interest wrote us and made observations about the hostile climate in Nigeria and they declined to take up the equities. Let us clean the industry first. No doubt Nigeria is a huge market and has to be reckoned with in international investments. We are a frontier market. We are over 200 million people and return of investments in Nigeria is high. This is the centre of the world. DT: The CBN introduced a policy restricting forex access to importers of certain items like textiles, toothpicks, rice and so on. Some stakeholders are saying this is impacting revenue at the ports. How do you view this forex restriction policy? Bello: We strongly support the CBN policy. We can’t continue to be an import dependent economy. While containers come here laden, they leave here empty and this affect even the transportation cost. The policy of the CBN has provided rise in non oil export for the first time. It is a testimony of the diversification of the economy and the confidence we have in our own economy. Forex restriction on textile and others is not protectionism. It gives equal opportunities with our producers here as most of our textiles, for instance, are smuggled into Nigeria.  We had about 15 textile industries employing hundreds and thousands of workers. It’s just like steel in Pittsburg or automobile companies in America. Because of the American policies of looking inwards, there are a lot of restrictions of steel into America. The dearth of textile industry in Nigeria has affected Nigeria hugely. Textile industry is a chain and all the chain has been destroyed. We now wear foreign fabrics. The policy isn’t limiting competition but given our indigenous manufacturers a chance. The CBN must be commended for this. DT: In declining to sign the National Transport Commission (NTC) Bill, the president made some observations. Are you aware if the National Assembly made the adjustments Mr. President asked for? If yes, is there hope the NTC Bill will be signed into law in the lifetime of this administration? Bello: The House of Representatives and the Senate have cleaned up the Bill now. It was indeed the minister of transport who pointed out three areas after consultation with all the relevant agencies. The Bill wasn’t in the control of the Federal Ministry of Transportation so the National Assembly had introduced certain things they thought was good but when we reviewed it with all the agencies, there were conflicts. So, we had to remove certain things and clean up the conflicts. The National Assembly did the cleaning in record time in spite of the fact that they were busy with political activities. We are confident Mr. President will sign it as soon as it is sent to him. Kaduna dry port succeeding – NSC’s  Bello Kaduna dry port begins clearing of containers Kaduna dry port exports 5 containers of ginger weekly