Time of elections The 1979 general elections to both the National and the State Assemblies and for the offices of the President and State Governors were all held over a six-week period between July and August that year. Since the 1979 constitution provides that election to each of the legislatures or these positions must be held every four years, it means that the ‘scenario’ of 1979 will be repeated in 1983 – another set of five elections must be conducted. In order to reduce boredom and fatigue on the part of the voters and election managers as well as eliminate other undesirable effects of such concentration of sensitive activities, it is suggested that the elections be staggered as follows: Alternately Open candidacy Although this is desirable and conforms with democratic traditions, the procedure can be open to abuse by party bosses or party caucuses. At times, unwanted candidates arc foisted on the electorate and if the party sponsoring such candidates is strong in the area, such candidates get automatically elected. In order to avoid the occurrence of this type of situation, it is suggested that the electorate be given a meaningful role in the nomination process. The adoption of the American primary election is the obvious answer. Under this system each prospective candidate is given opportunity to contest for nomination in competition with other persons from the same party. A mini-election is conducted at which all the supporters of the party concerned cast their ballot in secret and whoever emerges as the winner in the contest automatically becomes the nominee of the party to compete against the nominees of other parties who have also been selected in the same way by the supporters of their respective parties. An open primary can also be conducted for middle-of-the-road candidates who claim to secure allegiance of supporters of both major parties. Optional registration and voluntary voting Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental human rights entrenched in the Nigerian constitution. The act of registering and later voting or refusing to vote at election is an expression of opinion and no citizen should be compelled to register or to vote. Having said this, it must also be stated that• the problems of voters’ apathy- the so-called ‘vanishing voter’s’ is assuming such alarming proportions as to render the democratic experiment a farce. This problem was quite glaring during the 1979 Nigerian general elections when the voter turn-out was as low as 18 per cent during some of the elections. The question may be asked: ‘Why should people register if they have no intention of casting the ballot?’ The low turn-out was very costly to the country since procurement of electoral material was based on the number of registered voters, half or three-quarters of whom failed to turn up to utilize the materials purchased. As pointed out elsewhere in this book, the possibility of the inflation of the electoral register could not be ruled out and this situation could recur if there is no compulsion or veiled threat on the elector to redeem his pledge to go to the polls having taken the trouble to register. In some countries, such as Australia and Belgium, voting is compulsory and the turn-out of voters at election is most impressive – over 90 percent, the abstentions being accounted for by sickness, unavoidable absence from home, conscientious objection, etc. Electors can also be ‘induced’, or to put it in another way, be threatened, albeit in a veiled manner, to go to the polls if it is made clear to them that an election becomes void if the turn-out of voters is below a certain minimum. The French electoral system provides that for a candidate to win art election on the first ballot, he must, in addition to securing an absolute majority of the votes cast, also collect a number of votes equal to one fourth of registered voters. In the U.S.S.R., under whose election system only one candidate is presented to the electorate, such a candidate is considered elected if he gets the absolute• majority of the votes cast. If he fails to receive more than 50 per cent of the valid votes (i.e. more than 50 per cent turn-out since there is only one contestant) his election is invalidated and a new election is ordered. It is suggested that Nigerian electoral law should make provision to ‘induce’ electors (and candidates alike) to improve on voter turn-out. For example, any election at which the voter turn-out falls below 25 per cent should be considered invalid and a second ballot be held. If the turn-out at second ballot is also below the prescribed percentage, the election should be voided and an inquiry be conducted to determine the cause of the shortfall – whether it is electoral roll inflation or other reasons, with a view to rectifying it. If such a provision exists in the electoral law, politicians will think twice about indulging in the inflation of the electoral register, which can be counter-productive if the phantom electors are unable to present themselves at the polling station! Cost of election Although there is a provision in the Electoral Decree 1977 to limit election expenses to be incurred by political parties, none of them seems to take any notice of such provisions which, in any case, are difficult to enforce. If independent candidates appear on the scene in 1983 they too will, no doubt, ignore the provision and spend lavishly. However, part of the excessive expenditure on an election is attributable to genuine expenses that must be incurred, such as cost of printing letters to constituents (where these are literate), cost of printing photographs, party symbols, posters as well as fees payable to polling ‘and counting agents. These legitimate election expenses should be borne by the State provided that the candidate is not a frivolous one. The State should reimburse only those candidates who have secured enough votes to have their security deposits for the election refunded to them. If this is acceptable, the block grant which the constitution mandates the government to make to political parties should be enhanced and be utilized partly for this purpose. Paper ballot versus voting machines In paragraph 77 of part VI of the Report on the Operations of (FEDECO) 1976-79, the commission referred to allegations of election malpractices committed by some unpatriotic political party functionaries with the connivance of equally unprincipled field electoral officials. These attempts at rigging the elections took various forms, some of which are listed below. (i) Sale of surplus ballot papers to the highest bidder ‘During the Senatorial and subsequent elections, it became clear that the tum-out of voters throughout the country was fairly low, ranging between 20 and 55 per cent of the registered voters in each State. There was unconfirmed reports that polling officials and political party agents operating at a few polling stations connived to sell surplus ballot papers and thumbprint same for any political party or candidate that could pay for them.’ (ii) Substitution of ballot boxes ‘There were unconfirmed reports of ballot boxes being exchanged with unauthorized ones whilst in transit from the polling station to counting centres. It was alleged that these unauthorized boxes were being stuffed with ballot papers pre-thumb printed for particular parties or candidates.’ (iii) Deliberate invalidation of ballot papers There were also reports of unusually large numbers of invalid votes recorded at some counting centres e.g. about 50,000 invalid votes were returned for the Gubernatorial election in Plateau State. It was alleged that some Presiding Officers deliberately refused to sign ballot papers issued to some voters suspected to be supporters of a political party other than the one favoured by the election officials. The intention and effect of this gross dereliction of duty was to invalidate all such ballot papers. Invalidation could also be achieved by misleading illiterate voters to thumbprint ballot papers for more than one candidate. Another variant of this practice was for counting agents to add another thumbprint to a ballot paper already marked for a candidate. This was done by ballot counting clerks dyeing their hair with stamp ink (used by voters for marking the ballot with their thumbs) or other similar coloured substance such as gentian violet cream and dubbing their forefinger or thumb with it before thumbprinting a ballot paper while pretending to count it. (iv) Introduction of ballot papers into a counting centre It was reported that some counting clerks attempted to smuggle pre-stamped ballot papers into counting centres at which they served -at least, one polling station in Imo State reported such an incident to the Commission. The intention was to influence the result of the poll. Some of the officials were apprehended by the police although a few might have succeeded in this dirty job! The common denominator of the election malpractices enumerated above is that all of them related to the manipulation of the ballot paper or the ballot box which contains such papers. As long as the ballot box and the paper ballot form part of the election system, the possibility of tampering with both by criminally minded people cannot be ruled out. Hence the need and desirability of experimenting with voting machines which eliminate the use of both paper ballot and the ballot box and dispense with the services of ballot counting clerks. No wonder politicians the world over, especially in the developing countries, who manipulate the paper ballot and the box to win elections, are dead against the adoption of the machine. A lot of spurious arguments would be advanced by them against the adoption of the voting machine: such as its ‘prohibitive’ cost, likelihood of mechanical failure, possibility of its being ‘programmed’ like a computer to favour a political party, etc. Equally counter arguments can be marshalled to buttress the case for the use of the voting machine. For example, admittedly, the cost argument is only partially valid. The initial investment in procuring voting machine (whether computerized or the mechanical version being contemplated by FEDECO) is indeed heavy. But once made, the maintenance and replacement costs are relatively small. Big savings’ will also be made in the recurrent costs of running elections: such as cost of ballots paper (over 3 million naira in 1979), costs of a host of stationery items such as stamp, ink and stamp pads, ballot envelopes, ball point pens and pencils which run into millions of naira. The voting machine proposed by FEDECO is the mechanical type which is manually operated by the voter; it is not electrically operated nor can it be ‘programmed’ like a computer. It is because of the advantages of the voting machine over other election apparatus that the U.S.A. uses it. India, with a voting population of, at least 350 million (or much more if the voting age is lowered to 18 years) has decided to adopt the voting machine for election. A prototype has already been approved by the Indian Electoral Commission and this was shown to the author during his visit to India in November 1980. Nigeria should borrow a leaf from these countries. Excerpted from Amadu Kurfi’s Nigerian General Elections 1959 and 1979 and the Aftermath. 30 hours’ gain in 40 years 2019: Why re-run elections may come with problems 2015 elections: Nigeria and Nigerians should be the winners