Peter Terkimbi, 28, married with two kids, makes daily ends meet with his motorcycle which he uses to ply his trade of conveying passengers to various places within Makurdi metropolis in Benue State. The young man, who lives at Kiye village behind mobile barracks along Naka road in Makurdi, had always prayed to God for financial enlargement as he worked hard everyday to meet his family’s needs. But, unknown to him, evil had lurked around for him on this particularly day, early this year, when as usual after the morning devotion with his wife and children, he set out of his house at 6:30am for his commercial motorcycle (Okada) business only to come in contact with a dare-devil passenger who bathed him with acid just to rob him of his bike. “It happened on January 18, 2019, at about 6:30am. Soon after I came out of my home, I carried a woman from Ankpa Quarters junction to Wurukum, then a male passenger in front of Eco bank at Wurukum stopped me and asked me to convey him to Multicare near NUJ. “I took him there and he gave me N500 to give him change but as I dipped my hands into my pocket for the change, he poured something like liquid substances on my head. I didn’t know what it was initially because of my bushy hair, then he poured again and I started shouting as I felt the hotness all over my body.  My screams attracted people who came and helped me,” he narrated. Terkimbi added that the sympathisers first took him to D division police station which was nearby and which transferred the matter to the police headquarters where he was given initial treatment at the police clinic and then later taken to the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH) in Makurdi. Sadly, the father of two recalled that his first bike was stolen at Aper Aku stadium in April 2016 from where he parked it and stepped out just to buy something by the road side. He struggled so much after that to purchase another which was not only taken away from him but alongside his health as he now lies pitiably in the hospital waiting for a miracle. “The bike is what I used to feed my family. Right now, I need help to see me through feeding, buying of drugs. I plead for help because I can’t continue with the treatment. The incident affected my eyes, I can’t see but when they switch on light, I feel it inside,” Terkimibi said. In a similar development, Akaa Simon, 42, had the same story to tell from his hospital bed at BSUTH where he is currently receiving treatment and being looked after by his mother as his wife had left him even before the incident occurred. Simon, a father of three children, relocated from Abuja to Makurdi barely two weeks before he was visited with the misfortune which had cost him his sight and other forms of deformity that may only be significantly corrected if he could fund the medical requirement. “On January 24, about 6:00am, I was coming from my house located near Lands and Survey, then a woman stopped me at Goverment House roundabout and I took her to Abu King Shuluwa road at Owner Occupier from where I picked another woman to High level, Old Otukpo road. “After dropping the woman, a man who stood in front of the Division B police station by Zone 4 police headquarters asked me to take him to the state police headquarters and I charged him N100, he agreed and said he was with N200. When we got there, he said I should move him a little bit further into the close by Heritage bank, opposite the DSS office which I did and the end of the close where a heap of refuse stood, he alighted and gave me the N200. “As I wanted to give him changed, he started pouring a liquid substance on my head, I immediately lost control of myself and started shouting for help as he zoomed off with my bike. People came and rendered assistance to me, the police took me to their clinic where I was administered drip, then the police ambulance conveyed me to BSUTH,” he explained. Simon said one of his eyes is now condemned, stressing that at the moment, “I’m having financial difficulty to finance my treatment and feeding. My people are in Vandekiya. It is only my mother that is here with me in the hospital taking care of me.” Continuing, he said, “I was living here in Makurdi before I moved to Abuja to learn mechanic work, having completed my training, I returned in January this year to set up my own shop but for lack of adequate fund. I took to commercial cyclists to raise money to open a workshop before the incident happened.” Sadly,  both men had their sight affected and as they continue to be hospitalised at the BSUTH, without money to proceed on further stages of their treatment, there are palpable fears that their wounds instead of improving might get infected and lead to avoidable damages of parts of their bodies. The medical doctor handling their case, Consultant, Burns and Plastic Surgery, Dr. Chuks Ahachi told our correspondent in an interview that the patients have quite bad injuries. “They are both impaired,” he said. Ahachi, however, said he was optimistic that they can still regain their sights. “I think there is hope for them to see again with a corneal transplant because they are able to perceive light.” The consultant added that the patients need help for multiple surgery as the hospital has already done one stage of the surgery  to remove dead tissues and they (Terkimbi and Simon) are responding to treatment. “At the moment, the wounds have to be cleaned so we can do skin grafting. We should have done that at the initial stage  but they have no money and the wounds got infected. They need three stages of surgeries and each stage of the surgery would cost N100,000 for each of them. After that, they can proceed for the eye surgery,” the doctor disclosed. Our correspondent recalled that in 2016, unknown gunmen rampaged commercial motorcycle riders, mostly in Makurdi metropolis, shooting to death many of them at early or late hours of the day and taking away their bikes. Reacting, the Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), Catherine Anene, confirmed that the incidents of acid attacks took place sometime in January, 2019. Anene added that, the police took note of the trend and, therefore, deployed men to gather intelligence concerning the matter but that no arrest were made yet.   Killer bike-snatchers on the prowl in Makurdi Police parade man for allegedly killing ex-wife’s lover Rising tide of child theft in Benue