President Muhammadu Buhari is particularly interested in the timely and effective execution of the zonal interventions and constituency projects and would not condone delays or poorly implemented projects, the Permanent Secretary, Special Duties Office (SDO), Office of the Secretary to the Government or the Federation (OSGF), Engr. Festus Yusuf Daudu, has said. He spoke on Wednesday in Abuja at the “2019 Stakeholders’ Interactive Forum on the Implementation of Zonal Intervention/Constituency Projects’. This year’s event, he said, is aimed at enhancing the SDO’s working relationship as partners in the implementation of the Zonal Intervention/Constituency Projects and programmes. “President Muhammadu Buhari is particularly interested in the timely and effective execution of these projects which are in line with the Next Level Agenda; hence the resolve to verify, monitor and evaluate all these projects in order to ensure optimal value for money. “The SDO is responsible for overseeing the implementation of Zonal Intervention/Constituency Projects. This is a fall out of the mandate of the Projects and Programmes Department in the defunct Federal Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs which was transferred to the SDO in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,” Daudu said. According to him, this year’s event is in respect of the mandate of his office particularly as regards the verification, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the projects and programmes, hence the imperative that the office partners with the National Assembly and all the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) who are the major stakeholders in the responsibility of delivering the benefits of projects to the citizenry. He urged the National Assembly to sustain its support to the office by ensuring that the projects are used as a veritable tool for the realization of grassroot democratic dividends. Delivering the keynote, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Gida Mustapha, said forum is to briefed stakeholders on the critical roles expected of MDAs and to also provide guidelines on effective monitoring, evaluation and verification for payment of the projects nationwide. Represented by the Permanent Secretary Special Services Office (SSO), Hajiya Amina Shamaki Bello, the SGF said the forum was to also cross fertilize ideas on effective procedure for monitoring, evaluation and verification for payment purposes of the projects to guard against poor or non-implementation of the projects. He said that constituency projects and programmes are usually facilitated by the members of the National Assembly and captured in the Federal Government’s Appropriation Act. “The overall objective of implementing these projects and programmes is to ensure speedy and even development at the grassroots in line with the Federal Government’s Next Level agenda,” he noted. He said, “The task of ensuring the realization of this objective is a joint responsibility of the OSGF, National Assembly and all implementing MDAs. The MDAs are responsible for the actual implementation of these projects especially where those projects are domiciled while the OSGF will monitor, evaluate, verify implementation and authorize payment at various stages of execution. “Therefore, payments for contracts under the Zonal Intervention/Constituency projects will be made based on satisfactory performance in order to ensure value for money. Furthermore, Contractors handling Zonal Intervention/Constituency projects shall only be paid upon authorization by the OSGF.” SGF wants transparency in constituency projects Senate wants early preparation for 2019 budget SGF seeks transparency in constituency projects