The member-elect for the House of Representatives from Yobe State,  Hon. Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim, has said that women should be given a chance to participate in the leadership of the parliament. Khadija, the immediate past minister of State for Foreign Affairs, who spoke yesterday in Abuja, said women were not fairly and squarely represented in any aspect of governance. The politician, who was elected to the House of Reps for the fourth time, said any representation of women at a high position would be seen in the outside world as civilization, citing the current situation in America, Germany and the United Kingdom, where Nancy Pelosi, Angela Merkel and Theresa May occupied enviable positions. When asked if she would like to become speaker of the House of Representatives, she said, “Well, coming to that aspect of wanting to become the speaker of the House of Representatives, it’s entirely up to the members of the House to choose the leaders.” “The gender needs to come in, because as a woman, I feel that we are not fairly or squarely represented in any aspect of governance because in the elective position, we only have barely 10, 11, or 12 members that are female out of 360 members and when it comes to voting, youths and women, most especially women, are the highest voters in this country. “So, I mean having a representation of a woman at a high position would be seen in the outside world as civilization, as Nigeria has moved ahead. Since they’re all men, let’s include women. A woman’s position is now associated with development; giving a woman a major position in any country, like you can see Nancy Pelosi is in the US; you can see the Prime Minister of Britain, Theresa May. You can see Angela Merkel in Germany and these are three most powerful nations in the world but they’re headed by women, most of them. “So, we must be given a chance to also participate. We must not be seen as enemies of progress, we must be seen as friends of progress, we must be seen as people – gender that wants to see the advancement not only of women, but women and men. After all, we look after our husbands, we look after our sons, our grandfathers, our uncles, our cousins, all males, nephews. “Women should not be seen as if they come in, they’ll just protect the interests of gender. No! that’s a wrong conception. It is just that the woman should be given a chance also to participate in leadership. That is basically what I’m saying. It could be the speaker, it could be any other form of leadership. But then women should be given a chance to participate in the leadership of the parliament.” 33 North-east Reps endorse Monguno for speaker How female lawmakers lost ground in 9th Assembly Yobe APC stakeholders mandate Gaidam to nominate successor, run for senate