Some visually impaired voters in Niger state say they have to endure hours in the sun during the Presidential and National Assembly polls to vote President Muhammadu Buhari because he represents the hope for common man. North Central Trust recalls that in Minna, most of the visually impaired voted at the Kofar Gajere Polling Unit during the last elections and had to stand hours in the sun to exercise their franchise. In an interview with our correspondent  in Minna, the Sarakin Makafi, Rabiu Abdullahi said although the exercise was so tedious  for them as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to introduced the braille technology it earlier promised them, they decided to endure the inconveniences because of the unalloyed faith and love they have for the President. “We resolved earlier before now that no matter the pains and inconveniences, we must come out enmasse to support the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari because we felt re-electing him will secure the future for our children. “We queued for hours because they said we have to do it the normal way as there is no braille. Even when at some point we were informed that the Card Reader has malfunctioned, we insisted we must vote and in the end we voted,” he noted. The 73-year-old said he and others have been following the Buhari’s activities since he was petroleum minister, head of state, chairman Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) and now civilian president over the radio. He said Buhari behaves like the politicians of the old whose major concern was  to improve  the lot of the common man and advance the development of the country. According to him, before the election, the colony had organized a special prayers for the success of the president at the polls, adding that they also organized a prayer session when he won the election to thank Allah for accepting  their prayers. He said many of them, including their wives and children, have benefited from the social interventions programmes of the federal government, noting this is the only time ordinary Nigerians are benefiting from federal government’s programmes. He urged INEC to introduce the use of braille during the March 9, Governorship and State Assembly elections to enable them replicate what they did for Buhari for Governor Abubakar Sani Bello who he said also introduced development-driven policies and programmes.  Why we postponed elections – INEC Niger: Visually impaired voters lament absence of Braille at polling units National Assembly to probe INEC over polls shift