The Acting National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Professor Tunde Adeniran, says the party has commenced its rebuilding and repositioning process ahead of future elections. In a statement made available to journalists today by the party’s Director of Media and Publicity, Hon. Yemi Akinbode, Professor Adeniran said that “very soon, Nigerians will see what our next moves are.” “One thing that is clear is that we would restructure the SDP in line with the vision of building a strong, decent and discipline national political party that will become the real third force in Nigeria. “We would not have space for indiscipline and impunity. All the shenanigans will not be allowed to rear its head again,” he added. He hailed all its candidates in the just concluded governorship and house assembly elections and thanked them for their doggedness, commitment and dedication to the ideals and principles of the party in the face of the numerous challenges faced in the build up to the 2019 general elections. “We want to thank you for the good fight, steadfastness and devotion to the ideals of the SDP. You went round the whole places with the SDP flag, campaigning day and night, selling the SDP brand to Nigerians. This is a remarkable feat that you have all performed. “The results and outcome of your elections is not an indication of failure, but a call to all of us to rededicate ourselves to the challenge of building and repositioning the party for future elections. “We want to express our appreciation to all party faithful and the general public for their love and solidarity for the SDP,” he noted. Adeniran, who lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for doing a great job, called on Nigerians especially the media to support the new government both at the national and state levels. “Let us rally round the new government, let us support the government so that they can deliver on their promises and plans for the progress and welfare of Nigerians. “Yes, we have given them our mandate. So, we expect them to redeem their promises to Nigerians. Our understanding and support is key to their success. “We must ensure we consolidate the gains and benefits of the 2019 general elections in the general interest of our people and progress of our country,” he said. SDP congratulates Buhari, calls for unity SDP congratulates Buhari, calls for unity Plateau SDP mobilises votes for President Buhari