Kaduna state governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai has approved the constitution of a transition committee to prepare the ground work for his next government. The Kaduna State Transition Committee 2019 is to be chaired by Dr. Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe, the Deputy Governor-elect of the state. The committee, which will be inaugurated next week, has Alhaji Balarabe Abbas Lawal, the Secretary to the State Government, as Vice-Chairman and Muyiwa Adekeye, the Special Adviser on Media & Communication as member. A statement from the Governor’s Office stated that the ministries, departments and agencies of the Kaduna State Government are expected to prepare their handover notes and commence briefing the Transition Committee. Other members of the committee include APC state chairman, Air Commodore Emmanuel Jekada, the two APC senators-elect from the state, Suleiman Abdu Kwari and Uba Sani, and Hajiya Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, the minister of Finance. The statement indicated that other members of the committee include business magnate Alhaji Idris Othman, Husaini Adamu Dikko, a past president of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors, and Mr. Charles Bonat, a former SSG of the state who retired as a federal Permanent Secretary. Also on the list are Hajiya Hafsat Mohammed Baba, Commissioner for Women Affairs & Social Development, Professor Kabir Mato, Commissioner for Local Government and Muhammad Sani Abdullahi, the Commissioner, Planning and Budget Commission, who is also a member of the World Bank’s Advisory Council on Citizen Engagement. Also on the Transition Committee are APC Kaduna Campaign DG, Ben Kure, Campaign Director of Organisation, Dr. Muhammad Sani Bello and former DG of NEMA, Muhammad Sani Sidi. The youth contingent include Muhammad Hafiz Bayero, Special Adviser-Intergovernmental Relations, and an ICT expert Nuradeen Maidoki, Mrs. Stella Amako, senior APC member, and Hajiya Umma Aboki. El-Rufa’i appoints SSG, aides We’re implementing transition c’ttee report-El-Rufai Buhari transition committee to emerge after guber polls