A  Sharia Court 1, Unguwan Gwaza, in Gusau, Zamfara State, has sentenced one Habu Mai Shago of Federal Low Cost Housing Estate, Tudun wada, Gusau to one year imprisonment for assaulting staff of Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company while discharging their lawful duty. The Sharia Court Judge, Alhaji Labaran Salisu, found the accused, Malam Habu Mai shago, guilty of criminal conspiracy, disrupting a public servant from discharging his duty and causing bodily harm, offences punishable under Section 123 and 318 of Sharia Panel Code of Zamfara State. The convict was also ordered to settle all the medical expenses incurred by the victims. The prosecuting officer, Bashir Rabiu, told the court that the convict was arrested by a police officer when the Management of the company sought the help of the police after he assaulted the staff. Investigation revealed that Habu Mai Shago mobilised and led a group of hoodlums in his area (Federal Low Cost) to attack the staff while carrying the disconnection of supply of electricity to consumers who defaulted in settling their bills. Following the attack the staff sustained various degrees of injuries. After the charges were read to him, Habu Mai Shago admitted to committing the offences but sought for leniency from the court. The judge thereafter convicted him and sentenced him to six months imprisonment on each of the counts charge. He was however, given an option of N6000 fine on each of the charges. The Business Development and Regional Officer,  Engr. Abdul Sabo, hailed the judgement and warned the public to desist from this nefarious acts. He said he hoped that the judgement would serve as a deterrent to others . He further called on the customers of the company to desist from taking the  law into their hands, urging them to report any staff whose conduct is unsatisfactory. He said the management of the company was ready to take disciplinary action against any staff found wanting in the discharge of his duties. Army kills 21 bandits in Zamfara I didn’t detain anyone for disconnecting my electricity – Judge 4 jailed for assaulting EEDC  staff, vandalizing installation