The Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele has set the post-election agenda for the nation’s monetary policy, projecting that the current monetary policy stance of the apex bank is expected to continue while inflation is estimated to rise to 12 per cent and moderate thereafter. Mr. Emefiele made the projections at the BusinessDay Post-Election Economic Agenda Conference held in Lagos yesterday hinging the monetary policy stance of the bank on rising inflation expectations. He, however, noted that the Bank would adjust the policy rate in line with unfolding conditions and outlooks. Just as in the previous year, he said the Bank would continue in its drive to ensure that the policy interest rate is set to balance the objectives of price stability with output stabilization. While basing the inflationary projection on productivity gains in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, he said the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would be expected to pick up in the first half of the current year owing largely to the continued efforts at driving indigenous production in high-impact real sector activities. On the exchange rate policy, he said the bank, in spite of expected pressures from the volatility in the crude oil markets, would maintain its stable exchange rate over the next year. According to him, “Gross stability is projected in the foreign exchange market, given increased oil production and contained import bill.” Mr. Emefiele expressed optimism that the country’s Balance of Payments would remain positive in the short-term, adding that the current account balance could improve further if oil prices continued to recover. He assured that this would be “supported by improved non-oil performance as diversification efforts begin to yield results to reduce undue imports.” While warning that the issues that led to the economic crisis between 2015 and 2017 remained visible, Mr. Emefiele stressed the need to significantly increase the country’s policy buffers, including fiscal measure, to increase its external reserve. Experts react as MPC retains lending rate at 14% Increase in elections spending, constitutes economic risk –CBN MPC: Election spending driving up inflation -CBN