Former Ogun State Governor, Gbenga Daniel and his loyalists are set to join the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), barely 48 hours after Daniel resigned from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and announced his “departure” from “partisan politics.” Daniel who was the Deputy Chairman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council in 2019 polls, had served as the Director General Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organization during the PDP primaries. Daniel formed a last-minute alliance with APC in gubernatorial election in the state, wherein the party’s candidate, Dapo Abiodun emerged winner. In a letter dated March 14 and addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, Daniel resigned from the party and also quit “partisan politics.” However, in dramatic twist on Sunday, OGD as popularly called, addressed his supporters and loyalists at his Asoludero residence in Sagamu on why “he decided to quit partisan politics.” Hundreds of his supporters and loyalists rejected Daniel’s position, saying “he must lead them in to APC”, having worked for the victory of the ruling party’s gubernatorial candidate, Dapo Abiodun in March 9 election. The former Governor said with the alliance which produced Abiodun as the Governor – elect, he had returned his loyalists to the government, hence, he should be allowed to take his exit from active politics. Daniel who described himself as ” accidental politician”, said he had achieved mission in politics. Those who kicked against Daniel’s position including a member of PDP’s Board of Trustees (BoT), Iyabo Apanpa said they could not afford to join APC without him. A two – time lawmaker who represented Abeokuta North/Obafemi – Owode/Odeda Federal constituency, Hon Kayode Amusan moved a symbolic motion “for Daniel to lead all his supporters and loyalists to APC”, to which they all responded in a loud affirmation. After about two hours drama, Daniel left the hall without responding to his supporters’ demands. Speaking with newsmen, Daniel said “Basically, they (supporters) said I could resign from PDP. They said I must lead them to APC. And they also said I cannot retire from politics; that is the summary of what I heard. Now we have to take a look at it.” When asked whether he has agreed with the demand, Daniel responded “What else can I say? My people have spoken. There is not much to say.” Gbenga Daniel 'agrees' to lead supporters to APC Why I quit partisan politics, by Gbenga Daniel Atiku's DG, Gbenga Daniel quits partisan politics