Concerned citizens and stakeholders have called on the Federal Government to set up a judicial commission of inquiry to secure a broader, thorough, professional and unbiased inquiry into the massive loss of lives which occurred before, during and after the elections in Rivers State. The stakeholders, who made the call in a press release jointly signed under the title “Rivers Lives Also Matter” are Mr Atedo Peterside, Mr George Etomi, Mr Tein George, Mr Emmanuel Georgewill, Senator John Azuta-Mbata, Mr O.C.J. Okocha, and Dr Herbert Onyewumbu Wigwe. They expressed worry over the inability of the political leaders in the state to manage their rivalries and differences within acceptable norms of a civilised society as has been done in several other states in the country. They voiced fear that, if not checked immediately, the escalating cycle of violence would drive away investors and investments thereby leaving the people impoverished. The stakeholders urged all indigenes of Rivers State who engaged in politics and their political parties to act with restraint at all times and avoid utterances that might further inflame passions. They expressed willingness to work with sincere and responsible stakeholders and all genuine friends of Rivers State who understood and agreed that ‘Rivers lives also matter’ to find a lasting solution to the problems that had bedevilled the state of recent. The statement read, “We have watched with disbelief and horror recent violent incidents which occurred before, during and after the elections that were held in Rivers State on 23rd February, 2019 and 9th March, 2019. These incidents occurred supposedly as a result of the elections. “These violent incidents have led to the needless loss of so many lives, especially youths in various communities. “We do not believe that elections which are designed to enable the people choose their leaders should lead to their death instead. “Therefore, every single death must be investigated and the culprits brought to justice. “We are particularly concerned about the role played by the Nigerian Army in these events and welcome the announcement by the Army Command that they have set up a panel to investigate the conduct of their personnel who were deployed on election duties. In the light of numerous disturbing video footages which have gone viral across the globe, it is important and imperative that the investigation is thorough, professional and unbiased.”  2019 elections: Group asks FG to set up Enquiry Commission on Rivers killings Wike receives certificates of return Civil Society, women demand rescue of Chibok girls