Twenty-one political parties have adopted Niger state Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello of the All Progressive Congress (APC) as their candidate for Saturday’s governorship poll. The decision of the parties was announced to journalists by the APC chairman, Engr Mohammed Jibril Imam after a closed door meeting with their representatives yesterday in Minna. Among the parties only two, Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) are fielding governorship candidates in the election. Other parties in the adoption initiative include Democratic People Party (DPP), Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP), Democratic Alternative (DA), Young Progressive Party (YPP), Socialist Party of Nigeria(SPN), Mega Party(MP). Imam said the parties believed that the APC administration in the state has performed very well and should be adopted and supported to consolidate on the gains so far recorded. He said the aligning parties have structures in all the 25 local government areas of the state and that their gesture would further enhance the fortune of APC in the election. He promised that the APC would form an inclusive government when it is returned in the Saturday polls, adding that those who supported it from other parties would also be carried along. In his remarks, the chairman of the group, under the aegies of United Political Parties (UPP) and state chairman of Democratic People’s Party (DPP), Mohammed Baba Kashitu, said that the 21 political parties unanimously endorsed Governor Abubakar Sani Bello’s due to his achievements and determination to transform the state. He urged supporters of the affected parties to come out en mass and re-elect the incumbent for another term of four years. However, when contacted for his response on the adoption of the APC candidate, Malam Yahaya Daudu, PRP’s governorship candidate disassociated the party from the move. He told North Central Trust, in a telephone interview, that he is very much in the race for the governorship during the Saturday polls.  Borno PDP and the substitution crisis Governorship Poll: 10 political parties in Yobe adopt APC’s Buni 2019: Gang up against Buhari, APC will fail – El-Rufai