We thank the Almighty Allah for returning  our colossus and endearing leader. Majority of Nigerians were discomposed and in awful consternation before the presidential election of  February 23, 2019. Despite all the odds and obstacles created by your opponents, or rather, the enemies of progress and development of this beloved and dear country,  the Almighty God made it simple for you to sail though. This has happened, Mr. President, because of the prayers and  invocations of the majority of Nigerians in their mosques and churches. This instance clearly showed that President Muhammadu Buhari is a national leader, not a demagogue politician who gains power and popularity by arousing the emotions, passions and prejudices of the people through sentiments, hatred and abhorrence. Many of these captious and carping lots had done many things and took many negative steps to cause havoc and failure for the election, but they lost because the people of the country, more especially the masses, said no. Rigging means to manipulate fraudulently. Here, it means to obtain votes by fraud or deceit; and snatching here means seizure of ballot boxes suddenly and hastily by using force and intimidation with weapon or otherwise. These are heinous and odious crimes in any country in the world. Our revered and adored president said anyone caught committing these acts should be shot. We all kept abreast that no one commits such action except thugs, hoodlums and hooligans. And what is the definition of thuggery? The English dictionary states that a thug means a cruel or vicious ruffian robber or murderer. Initially, it was one of a former group of professional robbers and murderers in India who strangled their victims. So to me, perpetrating the above mentioned repulsive crimes is more than  robbery where one or two persons will be killed. Here, the whole nation is killed for bringing an embezzler or malfeasant who is totally corrupt and aiming at emptying our treasury. It is tantamount to killing the nation. Therefore, if snatching of ballot boxes and rigging were not crimes, then shooting the perpetrators cannot be a crime. Nay it is much lawful. However, if the agitators against the order of Mr. President were not intending to commit the crimes, why were they jittery? Any person who does not want to be punished  must be law abiding. While condenming the president’s lawful order, their presidential candidate asked: ‘How can a president of a country give order to kill his people?’ This person should not be oblivious of the fact that it was during their regime that the following political killings of some Nigerians took place – Chief Harry Marshall, Bola Ige, Funso Williams and many others. Chuba Okadigbo also died during their administration. Who unlawfully deposed the former managing director of Unity Bank, Alhaji Shettima Kuwama? We thank  the Almighty God that President Buhari has not killed anybody up till now. That regime also removed many governors from office through their incompetent state Houses of Assembly. On Channels TV on February 19, we all saw how Festus Keyamo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), debated with one of the senators on the issues of the order to shoot. The learned silk cited many instances and even taught him the meaning of the word thug, but the man could not understand. This fellow went on insulting the number one citizen, saying that he should go back to London. What a sauciness and brashness! One of these disgruntled elements said that even if  the Almighty Allah counted the votes, his lord and master would win the election. The other one attacked our clergies – threatening, mocking and ridiculing them, but nobody raised eyebrow. Please, which one is more grievous between snatching of ballot boxes and tearing posters? Some of the malicious campaigns they launched against President Buhari during the last presidential election was that he does not like the Igbo or the people of the South-East. Let us see if this is true. Buhari’s vice presidential candidates in 2003 and 2007 were Igbo. Buhari appointed four senior ministers from the South-East, including the minister of state for petroleum. All these facts are crystal clear to Nigerians. Buhari loves easterners and all Nigerians in general. As Nigerians, we must thank the Almighty God for saving us from these jackals and bed- bugs. Had these people won, Nigeria would have been declared bankrupt and a failed country. Prof Nguru is the chief executive of  the Nigeria Arabic Village.  Jonathan: My hope lies  in God, Nigerians Christian leaders forum endorses Atiku for 2019 presidential election Femi Falana (SAN): 'We'll make good Jonathan's revolution prediction if...'