Kwara state governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, has warned potential troublemakers to stay away from the state before, during and after the forthcoming elections in the state or risk the full wrath of the law. Also, he vowed a crackdown by security agencies on illegal voting. Governor Ahmed, who handed down this warning during a meeting of the Kwara state security committee, said he has received the assurances from heads of security and paramilitary agencies in the state of their full readiness to curb any threats to the conduct of free elections by any individual or group. He stressed that elections in Kwara state are traditionally peaceful, adding that the state government stands ready to provide the logistic support required by security agencies to maintain law and order as well as protect lives and property during the elections. The state governor, who is also chairman of the Security Committee, therefore called on all residents of the state to turn out in their large numbers on Saturday to exercise their civic obligations and right to elect leaders of their choice as security agencies in partnership with the state government will guarantee safety and security. Governor Ahmed urged Kwarans not to be alarmed by the presence of security agents deployed for election duties in the state as he is assured that they will be professional, fair and law-abiding in carrying out their duties. Ahmed additionally urged all eligible voters to comply with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) regulations on the conduct of the elections such as orderliness at the polling booth and the use of card readers for voter’s authentication as security agencies will be on hand to assist the electoral body in the full enforcement of election rules. He warned that security agencies would apprehend and prosecute anyone suspected of illegal voting, double voting, ballot box snatching and other infractions of applicable electoral laws. The state Security Committee Meeting was attended by the state Commissioner of Police, Kayode Egbetokun, Acting Brigade Commander, Sobi, Col. A Egbejule, heads of the Navy, Airforce, Civil Defence, NDLEA, FRSC, Immigration, Customs and Prisons in the state, Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Isiaka Gold, Chief of Staff Government House, Alhaji Yusuf Baba Wahab, Special Adviser, Security, Alhaji Amusa Bello, and other government officials. Kwara guber candidates sign peace accord Kogi governor sues for peaceful polls 2015 polls: Kwara governor warns against violence