Ethiopian Airlines, this morning, confirmed an accident involving its flight from Addis Ababa to Nairobi, the capital of Kenya with 157 persons on board. The accident was said to have occurred around Bishoftu (Debre Zeit). The aircraft B-737-800MAX with registration number ET- AVJ, took off at 08:38 am local time from Addis Ababa, Bole International Airport and lost contact at 08:44am, the airline said in a statement obtained by Daily Trust. The statement said: “At this time, search and rescue operations are in progress and we have no confirmed information about survivors or any possible causalities. “Ethiopian Airlines staff will be sent to the accident scene and will do everything possible to assist the emergency services. Accident Bulletin no. 1
Issued on march 10, 2019 at 11:00am
Ethiopian Airlines will release further information as soon as it is available. Updated information will also be on Ethiopian Airlines website at https://t.co/Je7pXoKxHh pic.twitter.com/07wKZHPVPl — Ethiopian Airlines (@flyethiopian) March 10, 2019  “It is believed that there were 149 passengers and 8 crew on board the flight but we are currently confirming the details of the passenger manifest for the flight. “Ethiopian Airlines is establishing a passenger information center and telephone number will be available shortly for family or friends of those who may have been on flight ET 302/10 March. The Office of the PM, on behalf of the Government and people of Ethiopia, would like to express it’s deepest condolences to the families of those that have lost their loved ones on Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 on regular scheduled flight to Nairobi, Kenya this morning. — Office of the Prime Minister – Ethiopia (@PMEthiopia) March 10, 2019  We are saddened by the news of an Ethiopian Airlines passenger aircraft that is reported to have crashed 6 minutes after takeoff en route to Kenya. My prayers go to all the families and associates of those on board. — Uhuru Kenyatta (@UKenyatta) March 10, 2019  “Ethiopian Airlines will release further information as soon as it is available. Updated information will also be on Ethiopian Airlines website at www.ethiopianairlines.com”. The aircraft was the same as the Lion Air plane which crashed in October, last year in Indonesia, killing 189 people on board. It was learnt that the crashed plane was delivered to Ethiopian Airline less than four months ago. Boeing is aware of reports of an airplane accident and is closely monitoring the situation. — Boeing Airplanes (@BoeingAirplanes) March 10, 2019  Ethiopian operates all female flight to Nigeria Ethiopian Airline aborts Enugu landing We will collaborate with Nigeria on national carrier – ET