The national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Saturday hit at the proponents of ‘Oto ge’ (Enough is enough) in Lagos, saying the slogan is only applicable to Kwara. Tinubu, who spoke with newsmen shortly after casting his vote at his Alausa polling unit, said Lagos state unlike many other states in the country had seen tremendous development. He said instead of saying #Otoge, (the slogan adopted by opposition in Kwara state which led to the defeat of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and all the candidates of the PDP in the Presidential and National Assembly elections), the slogan in Lagos should be ‘Oto pe’ (meaning it’s good here). According to him, when he took over as Lagos Governor in 1999, the internally generated revenue of the state was N600million but the IGR had grown to N30billion under his leadership. Also, he said the real estate sector in the state has recorded unprecedented growth with property owners getting “exponential values” better than their counterparts anywhere in Nigeria. “No nation or state has achieved financial independence like Lagos”, he said. Asked if he was threatened by those shouting Otoge in the state, he said, “Lagos is not Kwara. Otoge is in Ilorin. Tell your station to transfer you to Kwara (telling the reporter who asked the question). There is limit to copycat. Lagos should be Oto pe”. Tinubu insisted that APC is the only party in Lagos state, saying others are seasonal parties which disappear as soon as election was over. He stressed that he was confident of APC victory in all the elections. Tinubu further said the violence recorded in Okota during the first leg of the election on February 23 was just an isolated case, saying it was hyped by the media. He disclosed that only five polling units out of 1,375 PUs were affected during the said violence. Lagos State should be ”O Tope” not O ”Toge” – Tinubu APC guber candidate rejects Kwara govt’s position on campaign slogan Campaign slogan:  APC gov’ship candidate rejects KWSG position