The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Mahmud Muhammad, has said the party is already mending walls where it had issues to ensure that it wins in the area council. Muhammad who spoke on the sidelines of a press conference organised by the party’s elected member, House of Representatives for AMAC/Bwari federal constituency, recently, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to improve on the smart card readers. “We are fully prepared and ready to face the challenges of the area council elections as we faced the previous one. Where we had issues we are mending the fences to make sure we succeed as we maintain our winning strength in AMAC,” he said. He said the party’s candidate, Princess Anazodo as a former council boss is popular in the council and expressed confidence in the party winning the election. “As a candidate of the party, we believe that both indigenes and non-indigenes will come out massively this time around to give her the support for her to succeed,” he said. He said some people were disenfranchised due to the failure of card readers, adding that INEC should tackle the challenge ahead of the area council election on Saturday. “We are calling on INEC to improve on that aspect and we are also calling on security personnel to improve. This is a local election where security personnel need to stand and defend lives and property,” he said. He said the presidential and National Assembly elections were peaceful in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), adding that INEC had improved from previous performances. “Our commendation of INEC is only within FCT we cannot go beyond that because this is where we participated and we are calling on them as we are approaching the area council election to improve on areas that they have challenges especially the card readers,” he said.  We’ll not allow APC take us unawares again - PDP chieftain APC is a total failure in FCT -PDP FCT poll: Tension, anxiety as APC, PDP slug it out on Saturday