About a fortnight ago, supporters of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and those of Abdulmimini Jibrin Kofa, member representing Kiru and Bebeji federal constituency, clashed at Kofa town in Bebeji Local Government Area, leaving some people dead and others injured, while over 30 vehicles were destroyed. Most of eyewitnesses who spoke to Daily Trust on Sunday when our correspondents visited Kofa claimed that the senator’s campaign train was not expected in the community for any political function but was persuaded to visit by a former local government chairman of the local government, Dankaka Husaini Bebeji, who is the deputy state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). They alleged that immediately the senator’s entourage arrived the venue where Rep Abdulmumin Jibrin Kofa was meeting with his supporters, the security personnel in his entourage started shooting sporadically, thereby throwing the entire community into confusion. Idris Musa Kofa, a resident of the community, told Daily Trust on Sunday that it was the first time they experienced political violence. “When the leader of Kwankwasiyya Movement was coming, he was adequately informed that Abdulmumin Kofa was having a political campaign in the area, but some of the leaders of the PDP like Dankaka Husaini Bebeji pressed on him to go through Kofa. That was what led to this unfortunate incident. Today, because of this defiant attitude of the leader of Kwankwasiyya, our only health centre has been burnt down,” he lamented. He alleged that over 20 vehicles belonging to the Kwankwasiyya Movement were burnt by some residents who lost their loved ones during the crisis. Another resident, who was also a witness but pleaded anonymity, said that because of the antagonistic relationship between the two political actors, he expected such crisis when the Kwankwasiyya campaign train headed towards Kofa. He called on politicians to look beyond political ambition and build stronger relationships with the people so that they would always have a place to live afterwards. Also, Malam Tasiu Ibrahim Durmawa said, “Jibrin Abdulmumini Kofa was having his final political gathering in Kofa, and all of a sudden, we heard that Kwankwaso’s entourage would pass through Bebeji to Kofa. We were here when the DPO went to Durmawa to plead with them not to pass through Kofa town as the community had been taken over by Abdulmumini’s supporters. He said they were informed that when Senator Kwankwaso and his supporters wanted to return, some Bebeji-based politicians prevailed on them to proceed, no matter what the consequences would be. He added that when they got to Kofa town about 3pm, the security detail attached to Kwankwaso started shooting in the air to clear the road. According to him, in the process, “one young man was shot in the stomach.” Our correspondents report that 33 vehicles were destroyed – two of them were smashed while 31 were completely burnt. Reacting to the incident, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje said it could have been avoided had the commissioner of police, Kano State command heeded to his advice to withdraw the permit granted to the PDP to hold their rally, bearing in mind that the APC was also having a political gathering in the area. A statement signed by the Commissioner for Information, Youth and Culture, Malam Muhammad Garba, quoted the governor as making the statement while reviewing the security situation with  members of the APC from the area who visited him at the Government House, Kano. The governor said that prior to the unfortunate incident, he had prevailed on the police authority not to allow a parallel political gathering, but the commissioner insisted that he had already approved the PDP rally. In his reaction, the spokesperson of the PDP gubernatorial candidate, Malam Sanusi Bature, said they were surprised to see a conflicting statement from the Kano State Government “in its attempt to cover up an attack on our convoy”. He said the party would do its best to ensure that the offenders are brought to book. “We had police approval to conduct a political gathering at Kiru and Bebeji. They didn’t have any approval by the police. They said they were in a prayer session, but as far as we are concerned, that was a political gathering,” he said. He added that all the cars destroyed belonged to supporters of his party. Five dead, 60 vehicles burnt as Kwankwasiyya, Rep Jibrin supporters clash APC expels Abdulmumini Jibrin Suspects’ arrest in Kwara, Kano nothing to do with party affiliation – I-G