The Kogi State Government has assured people that the Saturday’s election will be violent free across the state. Director General of Media and Publicity to the Kogi State Governor,  Kingsley Fanwo  urged the people to dismiss the “fake alert of violence” being raised by the PDP, describing it as a ploy to scare voters away from exercising their franchise. He said State Government was working with the security agencies to make the election peaceful. “I want to put the record straight that the Government of Kogi State will do everything within its powers to ensure security before, during and after the State Assembly election. All the rumours of militarization and violence peddled by the PDP was to cause chaos and confusion in the State. “The Governor is a democrat who would never subscribe to any undemocratic approach to elections. “The Government owes the citizens adequate protection and that will be provided to ensure those who come out to exercise their franchise are not subjected to violence”. Fanwo said the People’s Democratic Party should desist from creating “an atmosphere of panic”, insisting that security agencies have been charged to apprehend people who are bent on destabilizing the process through violence and other anti-democratic approaches. “As far as the Governor is concerned, election is a celebration of democracy and not a theater of war. He believes his party will perform well in the next round of elections. “All the stories of threats and violence are false and unfounded. They are just the shreds of imagination of those who are jittery over the stolen ‘King’s Trumpet’ in their possession. If you steal the Trumpet of the King, where will you blow it? The coming months will unfold the real political situation of Kogi State. “Therefore, voters should come out massively to exercise their franchise as their security will be fully guaranteed”, Fanwo said. On the alleged marching order to LG Administrators to deliver votes at all cost, Fanwo said Government officials were not under any pressure from any quarters. “Ignore the rumors. We are one big family under the leadership of His Excellency, Alh. Yahaya Bello. Of course, government officials are politicians too who will work hard for their party to win. That shouldn’t be taken for unhealthy desperation”, he said.  Election: PDPPCC alleges plan by APC to arrest PDP members in Kogi Apprehension, anxiety in Kogi over electoral violence 18