The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it would embark on constitutional and electoral reforms to enhance the integrity of the electoral process. INEC’s National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, made this known on Wednesday in Enugu during the presentation of Certificates of Return to elected members of state assembly, governor-elect and deputy governor-elect. Also, he said the commission will consider the duality of electronic and manual collation and transmission of results to prevent noticeable lapses. Okoye, who is the commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education, said that the commission could no longer afford to plan in an uncertain environment. According to him, a section of the political class had refused to imbibe the democratic spirit that puts obedience and respect to constitutional dictates at the centre. He said: “While the commission acknowledges the need for constitutional and electoral renewal, the greater challenge lies in the bad behaviour of a section of the political class. “It is very clear that some of the provisions in the Constitution and Electoral Act must be realigned to meet the expectations of our people. “The commission will take a second look at the timeline for the disposal of pre-election matters and propose an amendment to the National Assembly.” He explained  that the commission would favour an amendment that would lead to the disposal of all pre-election matters at least 45 days to holding of elections. Okoye said that INEC would take steps that would prevent political thugs from storming collation centres in search of results. The commissioner charged the beneficiaries of the certificates to live up to the expectations of their people. He further said: “The validity of the certificates rests with the people of the state. It is within their constitutional mandate to renew, withdraw and or elevate it.” In a remark after collecting his certificate of return, Enugu governor-elect, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who won his re-election bid, said the people of the state had prayed for a peaceful and transparent election. Ugwuanyi lauded the efforts of security agencies during the process. He said his administration would continue to serve with the fear of God. INEC sets timelines for Rivers governorship poll Governors-elect to get Certificates of Return next week - INEC No constitutional logjam on Audu’s replacement  – Okoye