The Lagos State government yesterday urged eligible voters in the state to come out en masse on Saturday to vote in the Governorship and House of Assembly elections, with an assurance that adequate measures have been firmed up to ensure a hitch-free exercise. Addressing Government House correspondents after a special State Executive Council meeting at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja, on the forthcoming polls, the governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, said every necessary arrangement to ensure a smooth voting exercise had been made, adding that the peace and security of the state was paramount to his administration. “I want to assure that we will try as much as possible to ensure that the elections go very well. We want to also assure all Lagos residents of their safety, and to let everyone know that Lagos is a cosmopolitan state and will remain so. The security agencies have assured us that there would be peace across the nooks and crannies of Lagos,” Ambode said. According to him, “We are also very aware of the incidents that happened during the presidential election, of which we have taken proper care of.” Gov Ambode also clarified the news on social media to the effect that a public holiday had been declared for civil servants on Friday to prepare for the elections. “We inform all Lagos residents that contrary to what has been put in the media that there would be a public holiday on Friday, what we have actually done was to declare a mid-term holiday for students across all our schools in Lagos State,” he said. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Kehinde Bamigbetan, said that civil servants were expected to be at their various duty posts on Friday and should disregard any information to the contrary. Bamigbetan reiterated that as earlier announced by the state’s Deputy Governor, Dr (Mrs) Idiat Adebule, all public and private schools in the state should proceed on the 2nd mid-term break on Thursday 7 and Friday 8 March, 2019 and resume academic activities on Monday, March 11, 2019 in accordance with the revised school calendar for the 2018/2019 academic year. Police arrest 10 over killing of  Lekki coy MD Ambode donates 120 generating sets to Lagos police Lagos moves against traffic violators, robbers