The Nigeria Customs Service has donated 32,576 bags of rice, 1,794 kegs of vegetable oil, 329 bales of used clothes and other relief materials to some orphanages in Ogun State and some other states in the southwest. The orphanages that benefited from the Federal gesture include Little Saints, Raco Child, Vigilant Heart, Jesus Kids and Stella Obansanjo Children’s Home. The distribution of relief items to orphanages in Zone ‘A’ was carried out by the Sub-committee Chairman, Comptroller Yakubu Salihu, who announced this at the kick-off of the donations in Abeokuta, the state capital on Saturday. He said the exercise is in line with a presidential directive aimed at bringing succour and ameliorating the plight of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and orphans. Comptroller Yakubu said, “Immediately after the inauguration of the committee, we swung into action identifying and verifying all IDPs and orphanages in all the states and the Federal Capital Territory. “The sub-committee under my leadership kick-started this important assignment in Zone A of the Nigeria Customs Service in Lagos on Tuesday 12 February 2019. “Three weeks into the exercise, we are happy to announce that a great impact has been made in the lives of orphans in the Zone in line with the Federal Government intention to alleviate the suffering of the less privilege citizens”. He added that Customs had commenced donation of relief items to a total number of  134 orphanages with a cumulative number of 7,350 orphans in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states. He said the Sub-Committee would soon move to Zone B, Kaduna and other north western states. “The allocated items are escorted with landing certificates which must be signed by operators of the homes upon receipt of the items. This is to ensure that all allocated items get to intended recipients”.  Obaseki donates food items, shoes to IDPs, orphans Customs auctions 646 vehicles worth N272m in 6 months Customs auctions 646 vehicles worth N272m in 6 months