Transparency and good governance issues which are essential for a holistic beneficial development of the mining sector are still low, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has said in a report it released yesterday. These problems have remained despite the huge mineral potential which if properly harnessed could substantially increase the revenue profile of the country, the report also said. Presenting the report titled ‘Improving Transparency and Governance for Value Optimization in Nigeria’s Mining Sector’, in Abuja, Professor of Economic Geology/Applied Geochemistry, Gbenga Okunlola, said current efforts, including the new mining road map and reorganization of the regulatory ministry and its organs, have not yet resulted in the desired quantum leap due to the long years of neglect of the sector. The report presentation which drew participation from miners’ association, regulatory and security agencies, the academia, civil society organisations and the media, discussed ways to deal with some of the challenges confronting the sector. The report, Prof. Okunlola said, identified and discussed improvement of transparency and governance issues including how to sustain robust regulatory framework, revamping the institution and technical structure, getting the licensing framework right and more robust stakeholders’ participation among other issues. Prof. Okunlola, who is also president of the Geological Society of Africa (GSAf), said the mining sector still holds a lot of promise and prospects for the holistic development of the Nigerian economy if properly developed along acceptable global standards of consistency of governance and transparency. The Executive Secretary of NEITI, Mr. Waziri Adio, said agency decided to carry out the comprehensive study to complement ongoing reforms in the mining sector. NEITI: Our reports suffer from FG’s lack of political will Nigeria attains EITI’s highest rating, becomes first in Anglophone Africa NEITI to track solid mineral fund