 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that despite yesterday’s fire incident at its lbesikpo Asutan LGA of Akwa lbom State office, today’s elections would go on in the area. INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said yesterday in a statement that the fire incident though regrettable, would not stop the election. According to him, despite the loss of some equipment needed for the elections, the commission was able to replace many of the burnt materials and the elections would go on. “While we do not at this point know the cause of the fire, a report has been made to the law enforcement agencies and the Fire Service. We are liaising closely with both agencies to investigate and ascertain the cause of the fire and if found to be a deliberate act, we will ensure diligent and vigorous prosecution of those responsible. “Several sensitive and non-sensitive materials for tomorrow’s governorship and state House of Assembly elections were destroyed including I98 smart card readers (SCRs), the printed register of Voters, 13 power generator sets as well as several voting cubicles and office equipment. “Fortunately, the ballot papers and result sheets for the election were not affected and are intact. Acting timely, the commission has been able to replace and reconfigure all the destroyed smart card readers and reprinted the register of voters. With the replacement and the salvage of other items, we are pleased to announce that the election will proceed as scheduled,” Okoye said. Okoye said the commission was informed of the death of Hon. Adamu Kwanate who until his death was the member representing Nassamwo Binyeri State Constituency (Mayo Belwa LGA) in the Adamawa State House of Assembly. According to him, the late Kwanate was also the APC candidate in the same constituency in today’s election. “Consequently, INEC is compelled to countermand the Nassarawo-Binyeri State Constituency election for tomorrow (Saturday) and the same has been rescheduled to Saturday, 23rd March, 2019 in line with Section 36(l) of the Electoral Act (20l0) as amended. The governorship election in the constituency and all other state constituency elections will however proceed as scheduled tomorrow,” Okoye said. Anambra PDP demands probe of INEC fire incident Akwa Ibom elections to hold despite fire in INEC office Fire razes INEC office in Imo – Official