The acting executive secretary of the FCT Primary Healthcare Board (FCT-PHCB),  Dr Ndaeyo Iwot, has lamented the rise in child mortality in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He reiterated the commitment of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) in ensuring the success of the Save One Million Lives (SOML) programme through it’s over 200 Primary Healthcare Centres in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Dr. Iwot, who was speaking during a one-day media orientation on the SOML programme in Abuja, explained that the programme is a Federal Ministry of Health’s initiative launched in 2012, but re-packaged and rebranded in 2015, with intervention through the World Bank funding to improve on the services, particularly those concerning children and women. The Programme Manager, FCT SOML P4R, Pharm. Samson Eriba, noted that there is an increase in the mortality rates of children below five years, as well as mothers during childbirth, adding the funding was meant to reduce the cases. He said, “there are six thematic areas for the funding, which include, taking care of pregnant mothers, immunisation, prevention of mothers from getting malaria during pregnancy, improving the nutrition of children, as well as improving the distribution of materials needed for intervention in the nook and crannies in the FCT.” He, therefore, called on the media to encourage mothers to visit FCT primary healthcare centres to receive immunization, and other services, which he said, were free of charge. Also speaking, the FCT-PHCB Media Officer, Reginald Uhegbu, said it is well recognised that the media plays an enormously influential role in public responses to health issues. She said public health has often had the challenging task of both using the media to influence health practices while also countering that same influence where it encouraged unhealthy choices.  ...provides Vitamin A supplement, de-worms children Politics is making Zamfara’s health sector sick Mothers, children get free medical aid