Stakeholders in the global aviation industry have converged on Abuja to articulate the critical infrastructure gap that is limiting aviation growth trajectory on the continent. The African aviation industry is perhaps the least performing compared to other continents, a situation African and other global aviation stakeholders’ have resolved to reverse. Addressing participants at the three-day International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) workshop on Infrastructure Gap Analysis which began in Abuja, yesterday, the minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, said unless the infrastructure gap analysis is done, Africa might not prioritize aviation infrastructure investments that will impact the industry effectively. He also said the gap analysis will help investors know clearly specific areas of interventions. The workshop, with about 150 participants, is also expected to set a basis to formulate quality aviation infrastructure programme and master plan for Africa, at state and regional levels with agreed scope, broad and specific objectives. In line with the objective of the workshop, a preliminary survey on aviation infrastructure in Africa covering airports, air navigation services, and air operators with respect to fleet capacity will be conducted. State by State sample infrastructure gap analysis as relates to the present demand will also be presented on the basis of the data obtained the from the survey and other relevant information from the various stakeholders. Sirika noted that though African aviation already supports almost seven million jobs and $72.5bn in GDP, in terms of infrastructure requirements to support future capacity, aviation in Africa and other regions faces some serious constraints due to inadequate airport capacity, and air traffic management technologies and a dearth of aviation personnel. He said the “potential of African aviation is enormous and needs to be harnessed and well-coordinated, adding that Africa has over a billion people and vast and wide land that support air transportation but the absence of infrastructure is causing backwardness in the progress of the industry.” Also speaking at the workshop, Mr. Bernard Aliu, the  President, ICAO Council, said Africa presently accounted for about four per cent of global air transport services and has the highest potential for growth out of all global regions. He disclosed that the ICAO air traffic forecast indicated that the current global traffic figures which stood at 4.1 billion passengers transported on 38 million flights were expected to double in the next 15 years. Infrastructure gap limiting aviation performance in Africa - Sirika Buhari commissions 15m capacity Abuja airport terminal Doubts on airport concessions three years after