Former military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babaginda, has called on the winner of the just concluded Presidential election to embrace the opponents in the contest in order to heal wounds. In a congratulatory message to Buhari yesterday in Minna, the former leader also advised former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, to accept the outcome of the poll and work with the winner to move the country forward. “The newly elected president should heal the wounds of the heated campaign exchanges by embracing those who contested alongside him. The president must resist the temptation to see them as enemies; not even opponents, but fellow compatriots who merely disagreed with him on how best to move our country forward,” he said. “I was particularly impressed with the gallant and audacious spirit of the main challenger in the presidential race, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. I was not surprised that even though he lost the most exotic position of the land, his doggedness and pattern of support cut across ethnic, religious and regional lines.  I call on him to close ranks and work with the winner of the election in an objective and constructive manner so that democracy will continue to thrive in our country at this crucial period of renaissance,” he added. He enjoined the president to confront with renewed vigour the problem of insecurity, pointing out that the Boko Haram insurgency remains a threat to many Nigerians, particularly in the North East sub region, while “the twin evils of kidnapping and armed robbery/armed banditry remain a major national menace. The president must pay priority attention to these security issues.” He equally urged Buhari to heed the yearnings of Nigerians for restructuring and seek all constitutional means to devolve some powers presently exercised by the Federal Government to the other tiers of government. Heal wounds of heated campaign, IBB tells Buhari IBB Congratulates Buhari, says Atiku's support cut across "ethnic, religious and regional lines" Atiku visits Makarfi in Kaduna, says consensus candidate possible