The gubernatorial candidate of Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in Ogun State, Adekunle Akinlade and his party have hired a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Dr. Onyechi Ikpeazu, to lead other top legal practitioners as the gubernatorial battle shifts to the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal. Daily Trust learnt that Ikpeazu would be leading three other SANs, Mamman Osuman, Sebastine T. Hon, Ahmed Raji and 12 other lawyers. Our correspondent reports that Ikpeazu had led the Senator Ademola Adeleke of PDP’s legal team at the Osun State Election Petitions Tribunal, which, few day ago, declared Adeleke winner of the 2018 election. Already, the senior lawyer has filed, on behalf of the petitioners, a motion ex parte before the tribunal, seeking an order mandating the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to grant them access to the documents used for the conduct of the March 9 election in the state. In the petition marked EPT/06/GOV/01/2019, the petitioners said the inspection became necessary to allow them to institute a petition before the tribunal. The winner of the election and governorship candidate of the APC, Dapo Abiodun and his party, APC, were joined in the application as second and third respondents. In the March 9 election, Abiodun polled 241,670 votes to defeat his arch-rival and candidate of APM, Akinlade who had 222,153 votes. According to the results announced by INEC, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka of African Democratic Congress (ADC) polled 110,422 votes; Buruji Kashamu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 70,290 votes, while Dimeji Bankole of Action Democratic Party (ADP) scored 9,666 votes. While filing the application on 11 grounds, the petitioners submitted that without a formal order from the tribunal, the first respondent would not avail them the required documents for the purpose of instituting their petition. The documents sought to be inspected, they said, “are indispensable for the purpose of instituting and maintaining the said petition.” Meanwhile, the tribunal’s inaugural sitting has been fixed for Monday next week.  Ogun guber poll: Akinlade hires Adeleke's lawyer, as battle shifts to tribunal Osun Governorship: Adeleke, PDP urge tribunal to uphold their petition Tribunal reserves judgement in Osun governorship election petition