The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has launched a Social Health Insurance Programme to cater for the health needs of retirees in the territory. The Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat, Malam Adamu Bappah, made this known during a stakeholders’ meeting on retirees social health insurance on Thursday in Abuja. Bappah explained that the programme would alleviate the sufferings of retirees in accessing quality and accessible healthcare. The secretary pointed out that the age of retirement, which is 60, comes with common health challenges and increased disease burden, such as diabetes, hypertension and arthritis. “This is a time when source of income for sustenance is grossly reduced. I am aware that a programme like this requires a lot of funds for its implementation. “If this objective is achieved, it will be on record that FCTA has taken the lead and will be a pacesetter in the implementation of this programme for retirees in Nigeria. “We will see how we can leverage on the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHPF) to make the programme a success,’’ he said. Dr Ahmed Danfulani, the programme manager, FCT Health Insurance Scheme (FHIS), explained that the initiative was driven in line with the universal health coverage goal for all, irrespective of status. Danfulani enjoined all retirees to enroll, adding that the larger the pool the merrier the programme. He also said that all measures have been put in place to ensure that out-of-stock drug syndrome in FHIS hospitals were tackled and minimised. He re-iterated that the pensioners were expected to pay N18,000 yearly for FHIS, adding that each pensioner would benefit up to N500,000 healthcare services all through the year if calculated. The Secretary, Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), FCT branch, Mr Mohammed Bida, thanked the FCTA for bringing such a laudable programme to the pensioners. Bida advised that the FHIS payment should be deducted monthly and directly from their pension’s account, so as to avoid the issue of debts. Retirees call for inclusion into FG’s social safety net FCTA tasks health workers on service delivery NHIS and universal health coverage