The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has claimed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has refused to obey the March 6, 2019 ruling of the Appeal Court, directing it to allow the party’s presidential candidate for the February 23 poll, Atiku Abubakar, to inspect the documents and materials used during the election. Atiku and his party were in court, challenging INEC’s declaration that candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari won the election. The PDP, in a statement Saturday night by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said INEC had a deliberate and wicked agenda to frustrate Atiku’s bid to reclaim his “stolen” mandate. The party however, appealed to INEC and APC to obey the court order by allowing Atiku to inspect the electoral materials and documents used in the elections. “It is imperative to inform Nigerians that upon obtaining the lawful order of the Court, directing INEC to forthwith, avail Atiku Abubakar and the PDP copies of all the documents and other materials used for the Presidential election, our legal team wrote to the INEC Chairman on the 11th and 12th of March 2019 respectively, causing the Order to be served on INEC and requesting access to the said documents and materials. “Despite being served with the Order and several follow-ups, the leadership of INEC has refused to grant the PDP and Atiku Abubakar access to the materials and documents, notwithstanding the urgency of the matter. “This action by the leadership of INEC has further exposed that it has been heavily compromised by the Buhari Presidency to rig the February 23, 2019 Presidential election and to frustrate the quest by Nigerians to reclaim the mandate from President Muhammadu Buhari and save the nation from the crisis of an illegitimate government. “The leadership of INEC and the APC are seeking to frustrate our court option, seeing that the documents and materials will expressly show that Atiku Abubakar clearly won the election by the votes directly delivered at the polling units across the country as well as expose how the commission and the Buhari Presidency manipulated the results for President Buhari. “The PDP cautions the INEC to note that Nigerians are now aware of its manipulative tendencies and that any further delay in granting access to the materials might attract public odium. “INEC should therefore, end its unpatriotic partisan shenanigans with the APC and immediately obey the Court of Appeal and grant the PDP and Atiku Abubakar access to the documents and materials and free itself from unholy entanglement with the APC against Nigerians,” the PDP said. Atiku gets court’s nod to inspect election materials JUST IN: Atiku, PDP seeks order compelling INEC to produce election materials Atiku asks court to compel INEC to produce election materials