The Nasrul Lahil Fatih Society (NASFAT) has appealed for calm and restraint by the Muslim ummah while praying for a terror-free world in the wake of last week’s mass shooting at Christchurch Mosque in New Zealand. No fewer than 50 Muslims died and over 20 injured in the terrorist attack. NASFAT in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Banji Busari, condemned in strong terms what it called the meaningless killings of the Muslim worshippers. It advised the Muslim communities to be more proactive in security consciousness now than ever before. The organization described the attack as “heartless, inhuman and devastating to Muslims worldwide” especially when it was done at a time Muslims from all walks of life gathered to observe the Friday prayers. It said the killing no doubt “was a deliberate tragedy directed against our Muslim brothers and sisters including innocent Muslim kids.” “This is one killing of Muslims that cannot be rationalised by right thinking decent human beings”, it observed. According to NASFAT, the Christchurch shooting “confirmed the position of NASFAT that terrorism should not be given colouration in terms of religion race or creed.” “There should be a consensus that terrorism is a global social challenge and it will remain unfair and unjust to blame it on any particular religion or faith”, it said. The statement added: “We feel so anguished that at a time when global peace efforts are gaining ascendancy across boundaries and our hope that finally terrorism is on the decline, now the killings at Christchurch mosque have proved to be a big setback.” NASFAT called on nations and world communities to regard terrorists as agents of death and should be treated with appropriate punishment within the confines of the law. It added that concerted efforts must be made to address with urgency critical issues that promote terrorism under the guise of xenophobia or religion or other factors. The organization however condoled the family of the victims of the terror attack, while praying that Almighty Allah grants the victims absolute forgiveness, mercy and status of martyr. It also commiserated with the government of New Zealand “on the murderous incidence” while commending it for its prompt arrest and trial of the outlaw. NASFAT trains Muslims on inter-faith relations, co-existence UK task force tackles anti-Muslim violence Iran 'urges Nigeria to protect Shia population'