The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has demolished shanties in parks and gardens in Wuse Zone 6, Abuja, in continuation of its reinforced measures to mitigate abuse of Abuja Masterplan. The FCTA through a joint team drawn from relevant departments and agencies under the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) raided and destroyed kiosks, illegal structures operating as pubs in Surich, and two other parks in Wuse Zone 6. It was observed that the FCTA officials, accompanied by  joint security personnel carried out the demolition exercise, after the operators or occupiers of the affected structures were allowed to pack their valuable wares from the structures. The AMMC officials went round identifying infractions within parks, with the aim of sanitising them in line with the purposes for which they were allocated to their developers and operators. Speaking during the exercise, Director, Development Control Department, Murktar Galadima, noted that it was a follow up to its ongoing sensitization campaign and enforcement of development standards, which the government would continue till it had achieved its goal. Galadima said it’s going to be all over FCT, wherever there were designated parks, to ensure prevailing activities were in line with what was approved for the development of such parks. He also cautioned operators of parks and recreational spots not to do any transaction with any person that is not officially assigned to do that kind of transaction. “This administration has been up and doing in regards to implementation of our standard. “I’ll like to caution them (operators of parks) not to deal with anybody not officially assigned to do that responsibility, because, sometimes, some touts will claim that they’re working for the constituted authorities whereas it’s not true. “However if any of our staff is found wanting, we are going to apply the civil service rule,” he said. Similarly,  Director, FCT Parks and Recreation Department, Arc. Ali Ukele, said the affected parks were not designed for recreational purposes but supposed to be developed for basic park form, which entails they should have green and park benches. “We are not supposed to have buildings in them, so that’s the infractions observed. “There are some park operators that have approved allocations, but a lot of them don’t have, so if you don’t have and you are operating illegally this operation will also catch up with you. We have shanties where people are sleeping within the parks, and you can see all sort of things in the parks, there are laundry services, and all sort of shady activities, so we can’t allow the trend to continue. “Also, there are security threats, because people sleep in parks, and we have complaints from residents, because people come from parks and then rob or disturb them in the night, then disappear into the parks, so this is the issue.” FCTA demolishes shanties, beer parlours in Wuse parks FCTA demolishes nightclubs in Gwarimpa How Asokoro park was converted into ECOWAS car park OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY