The Catholic Laity Council of Nigeria (CLCN) has called for the restructuring of Nigeria for efficient management of security situation in the country. The council said it is the option if the present structure of the nation has proved too difficult for agencies to handle. National president of CLCN, Thomas Adekoya, while addressing the council at its 142 National Executive meeting in Kaduna, said insecurity has bastardised the image of Nigeria before local and international communities. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Adekoya called on the government, to “as a matter of urgency, initiate moves for the restructuring of the country and saddle the federating units, which we suggest should be the six geopolitical zones, to secure themselves.” The Laity President said, “It is saddening that our country, Nigeria, has continued to be in the eyes of local and international communities for the wrong reasons. For the past three months, or since we gave the last state of the nation address, no single day has passed without news of one gruesome killing or the other; one case of kidnapping or the other, raping of minors by matured men, including those who descend as low as raping their own innocent daughters. “From the foregoing it is clear that insecurity has continued to dominate our national discourse. However, our greatest worry is why the Catholic Church should be at the receiving end of some of the most bizarre of these killings. “If we hold dear that the protection of lives and property; and the welfare of citizens is the greatest responsibility of any government towards its citizens then our present day government has fallen far short of the expectation of Nigerians, no matter any other achievements it may credit itself with. One dare asks at this point: For how long shall Nigerians continue in this Hobbesian state of nature?” Adekoya noted. The Catholic Bishop of Kaduna Archdiocese, Most Reverend Mathew Man’oso Ndagoso, also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do more in the area of providing security for the citizenry. Bishop Ndagoso who fielded questions from newsmen shortly before the commencement of the meeting advised that since the general election was over, President Buhari must ensure proper national integration of the country. The clergyman noted that Nigerians have been so divided following the election of President Buhari during the last election. He said, “Anybody who cares for this country must be concerned about what is happening today regarding the insecurity. “What is happening in the North-East which has crept into the North-West, South-East and South-West is becoming alarming,” he noted. Catholic Laity Council okays Pope''s suspension sanction against Ahiara diocese Catholic Laity okays Pope’s sanction against Ahiara diocese Why agitations and separatist demands refuse to die