Stakeholders in disaster management on flood have called on the Ekiti State government to demolish houses built on waterways to avoid flooding during raining season. Representatives of agencies including Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Immigration, National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) Police, Red Cross, Prisons and government officials spoke yesterday at the “Stakeholders Meeting on Coordination, Cooperation and Communication (Role of Stakeholders) in Disaster Management held in Ado-Ekiti. They also called on government agencies to ensure that approval of building plans are secured before any construction begins in the state. The representatives also encourage every house owner to use standardbuilding materials that can stand the test of time in case of anyeventualities during floods by modifying their houses to help themwithstand floods. In his welcome address, Head, National Emergency Management Agency,NEMA, Ekiti Operations Office, Mr. Afolayan Olusegun, said there is need for stakeholders to meet and discussthe way forward on preparedness, response and how to mitigate theeffects of flooding. Olusegun, who is the head of NEMA Ondo, Ekiti and Osun states, saidthe world is now more inclined to disaster risk reduction, saying the Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA 2005 – 2015) is all about buildingcommunity resilience to flood and all forms of disaster which wasadopted by 168 countries, including Nigeria. He emphasized on early warning signals must be timely and Understandable to those at risk, adding preparedness must be collective to ensure proper response to mitigate disaster impacts. Olusegunsaid underfunding state emergency management agencies have put pressure on the national agency adding that emergency challenges call for concerted efforts ondisaster risk reduction (DRR). A former retired Director in NEMA, Mr. Adeyanju Michael, who presenteda paper on Impact and Mitigation – Way Forward, said all townplanners should give access for water to flow freely and every houseowner should  involve town planners before erecting their buildingon various  sites. Michael advocated that there should be regular cooperation betweenNEMA  and SEMA to enable them put in place necessary synergy to avoid flooding.  Flood: NEMA, Zamfara govt to evacuate residents Floods destroy three buildings in Kogi Flood affects over 5,000 households in Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara — NEMA OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY