Col. Wara Bello Idris, the Brigade Commander, 17 Brigade in Katsina State, has urged NYSC to intensify efforts in teaching national integration to corps members as part of measures to build a united and greater Nigeria. Idris made the call on Friday when the NYSC State Coordinator, Alhaji Ahidjo Yahaya, paid him a courtesy visit at the brigade headquarters in Katsina. The Commander said this was necessary since corps members could be used as agents of change in the country. “The trouble with Nigeria now is that some people are placing emphasis on religion, ethnicity, region and culture. “Our troubles cannot have solutions until we, as individuals, begin to see ourselves as Nigerians first before other considerations. “I as an individual, I believe in one Nigeria which is a task that must be done. “If corps members are to inculcate the spirit of nationality, it will go a long way to change the Nigerian psyche,” he said. The Commander called on corps members, who would have the opportunity of serving in the Brigade to learn the spirit of nationhood from the army environment and try to propagate it anywhere they find themselves in future. He said that the rate at which youths graduated from institutions without ready jobs was a dangerous trend which called for urgent attention. Earlier, the State NYSC Coordinator, Alhaji Ahidjo Yahaya had told the commander that he was in his office to thank him for the synergy the army had maintained with the NYSC over the years. He requested the commander to increase on the number of personnel instructors that were usually sent to the NYSC camp during orientation course. “Things were moderately controllable when NYSC was mobilising just about a 100,000 corps members nationwide. “Nowadays, the Scheme is mobilising between 350,000 and 400,000 corps members nationwide every year, we need more instructors here in Katsina,” he said.(NAN) Youth Corpers must be accepted by government MDAs- Osinbajo Insecurity: Army, Police, DSS assure NYSC of corps members’ safety in Abia Why Nigeria still needs NYSC OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY