Three people were killed in an accident in Gwarinpa, an Abuja suburb yesterday. The accident led to a protest by tricycle operators as they grounded activities for several hours. They were protesting the death of their member alongside two other passengers. According to an official of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) who pleaded anonymity as he was not allowed to talk to the press, the accident happened at about 6am around 7th Avenue. He said the accident involved a Mercedes Benz SUV and two tricycles. He said a tricycle operator and two passengers, all males, died on the spot while two men, a tricycle operator and passenger in the other tricycle sustained severe injuries. He said the driver of vehicle, who allegedly rammed into the tricycles and a female passenger in the car also sustained injuries. “Apparently they said the driver had hit another KEKE around Kado or so that was why he was driving dangerously on top speed till he crashed into these other two KEKE after 7th avenue. He must have thought they might be chasing him,” the FRSC official said. “The driver was wearing several golden chains on him when he was pulled out,” a witness who would not to be named said, adding that the vehicle summersaulted about thrice. The witness said the driver was almost lynched but was rescued by a “Good Samaritan.” An official of the Tricycle Owners Association of Nigeria (TOAN) simply identified as Dominic said the tricycle operators protested because their member was killed. The operators blocked the “Charly Boy” bus stop, an entrance to Gwarinpa Estate before they were pacified by police officers and residents. The injured passengers were taken to Kubwa General Hospital while the deceased were evacuated by police officers. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manza, said the command was yet to get details of the incident. Minor, 2 others die in Ogun road crash Hoodlums waylay tricyclists on Abuja road ‘Reckless’ tricycle operators flood Abuja OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY