The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) claimed, yesterday, that it will be a herculean task for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to survive in the state. It said the statement recently credited to the National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Uche Secondus, that PDP would win Lagos in 2023 was wishful thinking. Spokesman of the APC, Mr. Joe Igbokwe, in an interview with Daily Trust, said the PDP had lost all its leaders to the ruling APC. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Secondus had, on Tuesday last week in Abuja, received the report of the committee set up to reconcile warring members in the state’s chapter of the PDP and vowed that the party would do everything possible to win Lagos come 2023. Daily Trust reports that PDP has often met a brick wall in its determination to win the state and whittle the firm hold of the state by the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Before and after the 2019 elections, the PDP lost some of its leaders to the APC, including a former chairman of the party, Hon. Mashood Salvador, former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, and former Organizing Secretary of the party, Hon. Kunle Okunola, among others. Igbokwe said while there was nothing wrong in hoping, the case of the PDP in Lagos appeared to be a hopeless one, asking “who are the people that would drive the process of winning Lagos State?” He said: “The moral is not there. The money is not there. The resources are not there. Tell me, how are they going to win? “It is not feasible. PDP is no longer in Lagos State. They have lost all their leaders to us and the last straw that broke the camel’s back was their state chairman, Salvador. When Salvador moved, he moved with all the people in the PDP in Lagos. In fact, it is going to be a herculean task for PDP to survive in Lagos. “The party is gone in Lagos. If anybody tells you they are still in Lagos, that person must be a liar.” I joined APC to champion Tinubu’s 2023 project – Ex-PDP Org. Secretary As Nigerians elect govs tomorrow: Epic battle in Kano, Kaduna, Lagos, Benue, Rivers, others 2019: PDP zones presidential candidate to North