Ramaphosa condemns ‘anti-foreigner violence’ as FG seeks police deployment to S/Africa President Muhammadu Buhari has noted with deep concern, reported attacks on Nigerian citizens and property in South Africa and despatched a Special Envoy to his South African counterpart Cyril Ramaphosa over the situation. A wave of looting and violence mostly targeting foreign nationals has led to the arrest of dozens in Johannesburg, even as other African governments have issued warnings to their citizens over the violence. In Nigeria, President Buhari instructed the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, to summon the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria and get a brief on the situation and express Nigeria’s displeasure over the treatment of her citizens. Presidential spokesperson Femi Adesina said the Special Envoy is expected to arrive in Pretoria latest tomorrow, Thursday. Ramaphosa said, “There can be no justification for any South African to attack people from other countries.” Attacks on businesses run by “foreign nationals is something totally unacceptable, something that we cannot allow to happen in South Africa,” Mr Ramaphosa said in a video on Twitter. “I want it to stop immediately,” he added. Meanwhile, Onyeama said the federal government was considering deploying Nigerian police to South Africa as part of measures to stop the continued attacks on Nigerians in that country. He spoke when the Acting South African High Commissioner to Nigeria, Bobby Moroe, was summoned to the ministry to protest the continued attacks on Nigerians. “We believe that the advantage of this will be that the law enforcement, the police itself, will have the benefit of Nigeria input in their engagement with Nigeria community and with threats against Nigerian community. And we believe that this will be a game-changer and it will give confidence to the Nigerian community in South Africa,” he said. In his response, the South African envoy described as quite unfortunate the continued attacks on nationals of Nigeria, with whom his country enjoys friendly relations. “For us, these are acts that continue to demonstrate that there are criminals within the society that seeks to destabilize the country, there are criminals who seek to create an impression that South Africans do not subscribe to the principle of Ubuntu,” Moroe said. The Nigerian missions in Pretoria and Johannesburg said they have commenced compiling the list of all the Nigerian victims of the attacks for engagement with the South African government and other stakeholders for succor. “In this regard all Nigerian victims of the current attacks are requested to come forward to report their situation to the High Commission and the Consulate,” said a statement by the Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa, Ambassador Kabiru Bala. He appealed to all Nigerians to remain calm and avoid any precipitate action that may jeopardise the ardours task of engaging the South African government through diplomatic channels to bring the situation under control and to restore normalcy. AU to S/Africa: Ensure justice is done The African Union Commission has condemned the fresh xenophobic attacks in South Africa and called on the government to ensure that all perpetrators are brought to account. The AU Commission’s Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, said he was encouraged by arrests already made by the South African authorities. “The Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat condemns in the strongest terms, the incidents of violence against nationals of fellow African countries in South Africa, including the looting and destruction of their property,” a statement by Ebba Kalondo, his spokesperson said. “The Chairperson is encouraged by arrests already made by the South African authorities. “He calls for further immediate steps to protect the lives of people and their property, ensure that all perpetrators are brought to account for their acts, and that justice be done to those who suffered economic and other losses.” Lawan, Gbajabiamila speak Senate President Ahmad Lawan, in a statement he personally signed, said Nigeria will no longer tolerate hate crimes in any form against its citizens who are doing legitimate businesses in that country. “It is therefore, an unacceptable irony that a section of South Africans would so soon, after now, choose other Africans in their country as the targets of mindless violent attacks over frustrations for which the innocent victims have no control,” he said. The House of Representatives is set to reconvene over the xenophobic attacks in South Africa. Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila announced this yesterday via his twitter handle, saying an emergency session would be held on the matter as he cut short his trip to Tanzania. ‘Nigeria can’t send police to S/Africa’ A retired diplomat, Ambassador Suleiman Dahiru, said since there was no agreement with South African government, it is not diplomatically allowed for Nigeria to deploy its police there. Dahiru expressed displeasure that some South African police officers allegedly involved in the killings of Nigerians were not prosecuted. “If South African government is not ready to do what is right, Nigeria has to take strong action to review its bilateral relations with it,” he said, but warned that the government needs to exercise caution in taking definitive measures to address the problem. “Nigeria has an estimated three million nationals in South Africa and most of them are doing their own businesses there. They are not working for South African firms. But in Nigeria, there are big South African companies that employ thousands of Nigerians. “If we are taking actions against South Africa, it means we are closing down their businesses and thousands of Nigerians will lose their jobs,” the retired diplomat said.  Protesters storm Shoprite, MTN shop Protesters matched to Shoprite Ikeja, popularly known as Ikeja shopping mall, which houses Shoprite, MTN and DStv offices, to protest the Xenophobic attacks targeted at Nigerians in South Africa. Following the protest in Ikeja, Shoprite suspended its operations around 4pm, five hours ahead of its normal time for closing. In Lekki, some of the aggrieved youth lit bonfires and attempted to break into the store but were prevented by policemen. In Surulere, a lone protester demonstrated right inside the mall, forcing the management to quickly shutdown to avoid escalation. Similarly, the MTN Nigeria outlet in Ikeja, was also shut after some Nigerians took attacked the MTN connect premises in Apapa. In Ibadan, Oyo State, also, police officers had to take over major businesses of the South Africans as youths staged a peaceful protest at the Dugbe, Ibadan branches of Shoprite and Stanbic IBTC Bank over killing of Nigerians in South Africa. The telecom firm said it was totally against the attacks and killings of Nigerians and other Africans by some South Africans. MTN Nigeria’s spokesman Onome Okwah in a statement sent to Daily Trust said the telecom company strongly condemned the killings and shouldn’t be associated with any violence against Nigerians in South Africa. FG warns against attack on S/African businesses Nigerians have been urged not to attack South African companies operating in Nigeria in retaliation for the ongoing xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in a statement yesterday, described as deeply disturbing the reports that some Nigerians, angered by the xenophobic attacks in South Africa, have started attacking South African companies in Nigeria. He said targeting South African companies in Nigeria for attack is, for Nigerians, a classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face, because the investors in such companies, especially MTN and Shoprite, are Nigerians. He assured Nigerians that the Federal Government is already taking decisive measures to put an end to the persistent xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. S/Africa should be grateful to Nigeria- Amb. Malami Former Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa, Shehu Malami has said the country’s citizens should be appreciative towards Nigerians because of Nigeria’s magnanimity towards them and standing in Africa. Malami, who was in office during the General Sani Abacha regime, said he was not surprised with the latest xenophobic attacks, which he attributed to an “atmosphere of commotion and war” among Nigerians and the violent nature of South Africans. “Previously, they had whites terrorizing black men but now we have got black men terrorizing black men, and the whole thing doesn’t make sense to me,” he said. The Sarkin Sudan of Wurno, said if Nigerians should behave like South Africans, they would send away most of their firms in Nigeria, explaining that contrary to the belief in that country, majority of Nigerians go there to spend their money as they make their money in Nigeria, unlike South Africans who actually come to Nigeria to make money. “This is why South Africans should be grateful to us. When I was high commissioner there, I told my government that South Africa would come to say thank you to Nigeria for all what we did for them over Apartheid there but to also take into recognition the big market Nigeria provides for everything; so not only to appreciate what we did for them, they would come and settle down and take over our market,” he said. “They kidnapped my 11-year old son when I was high commissioner and I had stray bullet in my sitting room when I was away in Nigeria. The atmosphere is too rough. Even in terms of security, they tell all the ambassadors then to group together. They say they should not drive in South Africa unless they have to.” Buhari reacts to xenophobic attack in S/Africa More reactions trail attacks on Nigerians in South Africa Xenophobic attacks in South Africa... Nigeria recalls envoy, pulls out of economic summit OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY