The Federal Government is working hard to apply genetic engineering and bio-technology to ensure food safety and security in the country. The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, disclosed this while declaring open on Tuesday in Abuja a workshop on “Basic Laboratory Training on Living Modified Organisms (LMOs) Detection and Identification. Dr. Onu said the Federal Government had recognised the importance of genetic engineering and bio-technology to the progress of the nation, adding that it would boost local production of food and commodities and minimise the need for continuous import. He said, “The Federal Ministry of Science and Technology will continue to support the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) in carrying out this very important mandate to help our country not only in the area of agriculture, but also protecting our environment and ensuring the desire of our nation to industrialise rapidly is achieved.” He said the contributions of scientists would go a long way in bridging the knowledge gap in genetic engineering and bio-technology. Earlier, the acting DG/CEO of NABDA, Prof. Alex U. Akpa, said Nigeria had embraced bio-technology and genetic engineering for better improvement in crops and animal production. Prof. Akpa said, “We have made significant investments in modern bio-technology to assist in deepening awareness of the technology and its impact on national growth and development”, adding that efforts made had yielded remarkable rsults in the field. The representative of the Executive Secretary of the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (SCBD), Austein McLoughlin, said close cooperation with developing nations would be sustained in a bid to identify the importance of LMOs. Agro biotechnology: The  way to go FG to develop renewable energy, bio-gas for food securit Onu advocates new national security policy OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY