The Zamfara State government yesterday raised alarm over possible attack on seven local government areas of the state by members of the Boko Haram sect. The Director General, Press Affairs, Alhaji Yusuf Idris, at a press conference,  said the state government was in a possession of credible intelligence reports, suggesting that ‘‘some disgruntled politicians of the state origin were making clandestine moves to destabilize the state’’. “For sinister and personal gains, they are collaborating with dispersed elements of Boko Haram to launch series of attacks on innocent and peace loving people of the state in order to scuttle the relative peace being enjoyed as a result of the peace and dialogue process initiated by the present administration. “According to the intelligence report, the cruel and mischievous elements have perfected plans to launch the attacks in seven local government areas of the state and in other strategic places within the state capital. According to the report, two important personalities of the state are also targeted for elimination should this dastardly act succeed. “The targeted local governments are;  Gusau, the state capital, Tsafe, Talata Mafara, Anka, Zurmi, Maru and Maradun. The strategic places targeted are; Gusau Central Mosque and Gusau Mami Market where soft targets are known to gather both during the day and at night,” Yusuf said. He added that ‘‘the Boko Haram elements have been recruited from far and wide to carry out these heinous acts slated for between Monday, September 23 and October 25, 2019’’. According to him, Governor Bello Matwalle has prioritised security of lives and properties of his people and therefore found it imperative to alert the people of the state, especially those in the listed local government areas to be very vigilant, wary and watchful and promptly report to security agencies nearest to them acts that seem suspicious for immediate action. He further appealed to the people not to panic as government and security agencies were working to keep everyone safe.  Zamfara raises alarm over possible Boko Haram attack on 7 LGAs Gov. Matawalle alerts on presence of Boko Haram elements in Zamfara Bandits kill more Nigerians than Boko Haram, robbers, kidnappers, cultists, others OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY