Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday said Nigeria will soon overcome its numerous challenges. Osinbajo disclosed this on Sunday at the Independence Day Interdenominational Service, held at the National Christian Centre (NCC), Abuja as part of activities marking the nation’s 59th Independence anniversary. According to him, the noise being heard now is the last gasps of the nation’s defeated foe. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “God had promised, through the mouths of His trusted prophets, that He is giving us a New Nigeria! May I announce to you today that God is ready to take us into the Promised Land, the new Nigeria. And we must remember that God, the Almighty God is the builder of nations, that God controls the destinies of nations and its people. “God has promised us a new Nigeria, a peaceful Nigeria, a prosperous Nigeria, a Nigeria where justice and equity shall prevail, a united Nigeria, where the different tribes and tongues are not wedges of separation, but the joyful textures of our togetherness. God is ready to fulfil His promise,” the Vice President said. He added, “We stand outside the new city, the Promised Land, the new Nigeria; like the spies sent by Moses to spy out the Promised Land, some are saying, ‘Ha! It is impossible, Nigeria cannot change, the ethnic and religious divisions are too deep, corruption cannot end, politicians are too selfish and mischievous.’ “Yet, like Caleb and Joshua, we declare that these problems are merely bread for us, we will enter the Promised Land! The new Nigeria is here, and each and every one of us, our families, our friends, all of us, will eat the pleasant fruits of this land. “God Almighty has taken away the protection of the enemies of this nation. He has taken away their powers, the noise we hear, the turbulence we experience, are the last gasps of a defeated foe. The day of freedom is at the door. As with Abraham, we in the words of Hebrews 11:10 wait for the new Nigeria, which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God.” Independence: Buhari working for better livelihoods for Nigerians – SGF Osinbajo: Nigeria’s current challenges, signs of greatness Osinbajo, clerics pray for Buhari at Aso Rock