The Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society (AIS) has held its 9th Muslim Teenagers Workshop. The workshop themed, ‘Be Accountable, be Peaceful’, was part of measures to build the leadership capacity of youths as the country’s future leaders. The 10-day event held at Al-Habibiyyah Mosque and Islamic Centre, Guzape, Asokoro Extension, Abuja, featured career talks, anti-corruption classes and leadership tutelage among other skills and vocational mentoring. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Speaking at the closing ceremony of the event on Sunday, the chairman, Mission Board of the society and a former Nigerian Ambassador to Pakistan, Alhaji Ridhwan Adebayo Mustapha, urged the children to emulate Prophet Muhammad, as he has been described as the best example of a role model by Allah. He said the teenagers’ participation in the workshop was a blessing and that it is in their interest and the larger society’s that they imbibed and lived with what they learnt during the sessions. “You should comport yourselves such that people can make reference to you and also identify that your good and worthy behaviours as Muslims following the dictates of Islam as practiced by Prophet Muhammad, distinguished you,” Mustapha said. He also stressed the importance of cleanliness, hardwork, being truthful and shunning all forms of corrupt tendencies by the youths. The National Ameerah (women leader) of the organisation, Hajiya Rakiya Gambo-Iliyasu, told the children to imbibe the gains of the programme rather than abandon it on their return to their parents. “The children should avoid all forms of corruption like stealing; if they steal from home, they would grow up to be stealing from the system. You should also avoid hooliganism, truancy and bad pranks such that your action would also not paint Islam in bad light,” she said. On their parts, Hajiya Amina Salihu of the MacArthur Foundation in Nigeria, and Barrister Asiya Ossamor urged the youths to learn accountability for them to live righteous lives and to also hold their parents accountable, respectably, so that the parents can act in matter that the children would emulate.  Aregbesola, Wada grace Al-Habibiyyah Ramadan lecture Islamic society calls for national security summit Ramadan: Islamic scholar tasks Muslims on love