The Supreme Court has dismissed the appeal seeking to disqualify President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential poll over alleged false information on his academic certificate. A five-member panel of justice struck out the appeal on Monday after it was withdrawn by the appellants after hints that it might be unsuccessful having been caught up by the Fourth Alteration in the Nigerian Constitution 1999. The appeal, which was filed by three Nigerian citizens: Kalu Kalu Agu, Labaran Ismail and Hassy Kyari El-Kunis challenging Buhari’s INEC Form CF001 where he stated that he has a school certificate as required by law, was earlier dismissed by a Federal High Court on May 2 and the Court of Appeal in Abuja on July 12. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY When the matter came up for hearing, Justice Mary Peter Odili asked the appellants’ lawyer, Ukpai Ukairo if the case was statute barred or not before proceedings. The lawyer admitted that it was out of time after the justices drew his attention to Buhari’s form CF001 which was the bone of contention and which was received by INEC on October 14, whereas the case was instituted in the middle of November thereby indicating that the suit being a pre-election matter was filed outside the 14 days provided by the law. The apex court, however, criticized the appearance of a Principal State Counsel from Federal Ministry of Justice, Abdullahi Abubakar, for president Buhari in a matter that is personal. The justices held that the action of the lawyer contravenes the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers, citing former American president, Bill Clinton, who throughout his tenure never used public funds for personal litigation. They said the same should be applicable to Nigeria since the country uses the American system of government. The Court of Appeal had in a lead judgment, read by Justice Muhammed Idris, held that the matter was statute barred having been filed after 14 days provided under the 4th Alteration of the Nigerian Constitution. He said the cause of action arose on October 18, 2018 when the president submitted the said Form CF001 to INEC not September 28, 2018, when Buhari was nominated by the APC as held by Justice A.R. Mohammed of the Federal High Court. A/Court reserves judgment in Buhari’s certificate case Certificate: Court of Appeal dismisses appeal against Buhari Supreme Court strikes out perjury suit against Buhari