The federal government has raised alarm over increased influx of substandard products into Nigerian markets. The Chief Executive Officer of Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Babatunde Irukera, raised the alarm on Wednesday during a sensitization programme held at the International Conference Centre (ICC) of the University of Ibadan, urging consumers to always insist on quality. The programme themed: “Competitiveness and A Culture of Quality” was aimed at educating Nigerians on their rights as consumers of goods and services. “The most important thing we are glad to accomplish with this is to educate consumers about their rights with respect to quality,” he said. Irukera further said that Nigerians would invariably have culture of excellence if they inculcate the culture of quality. According to him, 60 percent of Nigerians preferred poor products rather than the quality, noting that it was a reason why the markets are flooded by substandard goods. “Essentially, it seems in our market today, quality is an option and substandard products as well as services the second option. “You can get into a market where somebody ask if you want original or Taiwan, or something else. That is not really the law. Consumers must have quality. “So, presenting you with quality or otherwise is not even an option. This is all FCCPC supposed to do and some of the most important people for that are students as well as educators. So that we can begin from inculcating and re-cultivating the culture of quality across board,” he said. He said the most important thing for the enforcement of consumer’s rights was for the people to demand for their rights in markets. According to him, “this is because we know that the greatest modifier of human being is consequence and the greatest consequence for a lack of quality is that people reject it. “We believe that taking this message to the grassroots or the right audiences is a very important aspect of nation building.” The Coordinator, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, Oyo State Office, Mr Pius Manji, said that there was 70 percent compliance by local manufacturers to required standard. “I can say we have 70 percent compliance, specifically by local manufacturers because most of them are MANCAP certified. “We have a programme called Mandatory Confirmatory Assessment Programme (MANCAP). It is a process through which a company introducing any product passes through to get certified,” he said. Manji said that the ongoing diversification and standardisation in the national economic policy by the present administration would ensure economic growth, especially in the non-oil sector. He said that it would also in turn promote the culture of quality among manufacturers and service providers. The Dean of Students’ Affairs at the University of Ibadan, Prof. Adekeye Abiona, lauded the commission for reaching out to consumers to educate them on their rights. Manufacturers alert SON over influx of substandard batteries Substandard products take over Aba markets - SON Substandard products in Nigeria not from China - Chamber OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY