The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, yesterday met President Muhammadu Buhari over the attacks in South Africa and other issues. Speaking at the end of the meeting, Gbajabiamila said he met the president over the attacks and other national issues. “Engagement with Mr. President is not out of place even on a normal day but these are not normal days. The country in the past few days has witnessed unfortunate incidents in South Africa. “As you are aware, I cut my trip to Tanzania to return with the hope of reconvening the House so that we can discuss this very important issue. We have called that off because events have overtaken it, the government has taken proactive steps, the same we would have taken. “We are all on the same page with the president and the government. So I came to fully discuss that with Mr. President and other national issues that require the attention of both the legislature and the executive, and we had very fruitful discussions on those issues,” he said. On whether there are moves to cut bilateral ties with South Africa, he said: “We are not there yet but nothing is off the table, we will take each day as it comes.” On the statement of the South African minister that victims won’t be compensated, he said: “I don’t know if that statement is official or an off the cuff statement by somebody.  When it’s official we will take further steps. After the delegation in South Africa I’m sure there are probably other avenues that are international that we can pursue.” He said he also discussed the 2020 budget with Buhari. “We discussed security issues and the issue of the recent $9 billion award against Nigeria. I say that with a smile but not really smiling. Clearly we are in opposition to that and steps will be taken,” he said. Earlier, while addressing a world press conference, the speaker said he was ready to authorize legal funding for Nigerians who wish to take legal action against identified perpetrators of the violence and their sponsors. He also said the House would invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa, the chairman of the Nigeria Diaspora Commission and other stakeholders to ascertain the real causes of the attacks.  Buhari meets Gbajabiamila, discusses Xenophonia, $9.6bn Judgment Debt Buhari can appoint PDP members as ministers – Sen. Shuaibu ‘Why Gbajabiamila should be Speaker’ OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY