The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, says the Muhammadu Buhari administration has laid a solid foundation for Nigeria’s economic development through massive investments in agriculture, power, transportation infrastructure and manufacturing. Mustapha, who said this yesterday at State House during an appreciation dinner with media partners, voiced government’s belief that ‘tangible investments’ in those priority areas would drive the nation’s economic diversification programmes, curb inflation and shore up foreign reserves. He said the administration had run a government that was accountable to the public by all standards since he assumed office. He said, “Boko Haram terrorists have been substantially degraded. The commitment of the Buhari administration to the fight against terrorism is not in doubt, and we are actively addressing other challenges such as kidnappings, communal conflicts and the farmers/herders clashes. “The anti-corruption fight is upbeat. The control measures to tackle leakages in public resources have saved us billions of naira, while those who stole our common patrimony are being made to return what they illegally acquired for themselves and their cronies through the legal process. “To our media partners, I want to stress that in the determination of this administration to place Nigeria on the path of rapid growth and sustainable development, we will always count on your role as the watchdog of the society, partners in progress, and the conscience of the nation. “The Buhari administration will not muzzle the Press as you perform the important work of providing the public with reliable and quality information. We acknowledge that no real democracy can exist anywhere in the world without freedom of the press.” He said the special dinner organized by the Presidential Communication Team (PCT) of the State House provided an opportunity to showcase government’s agenda to the Nigerian people and forge stronger partnerships and synergy for the benefit of people. The SGF thanked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for providing leadership for the PCT and support in forging the vision of the “Next Level Agenda” of government, particularly on social intervention programmes with the objective of lifting more Nigerians out of poverty. He said the appreciation dinner with media partners which brought together leadership of the National Assembly, Governors, Ministers, Heads of Government Agencies and Senior Presidential Aides aims was a manifestation of the fact that the administration valued the contributions of the media in nation building. “That is why in the past four years, the PCT has provided a platform for key government officials to regularly engage Editors and Media Managers in-camera briefing sessions to exchange views on some pressing challenges facing our dear country,” he also said. Nigeria’s development depends on transparency –SGF Boss Mustapha and Buhari’s Next Level agenda SGF: Buhari will spend 8 years OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY