Against the backdrop of reports on an alleged probe by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, representing Sokoto North zone on Tuesday said he is willingness to submit himself for legitimate scrutiny, not media trial. This was contained in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media and Publicity, Bashir Rabe Mani. He alleged that the petition quoted in the reports emanated from some non-existent and faceless persons linking him and Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso to alleged mismanagement of over N18 billion when they were in office as state governors. Wamakko said the allegations were meant to tarnish his image and challenged those involved to publish his bank accounts and other details to back their “nefarious and virulent unsubstantiated claims.” “For the avoidance, any doubt, this fake and debilitating report was circulated by the same deluded agents of doom and merchants of falsehood, in April 2018, but, their heinous efforts, then failed woefully to soil the good and ever-rising stars of Senator Wamakko,” he stated. “Senator Wamakko had then, also denied receiving any invitation from the Commission and this unfettered and impeccable fact remains so, till date.” “The purported petition did not emanate from the EFCC, but, from some chronic merchants of falsehood,” he stressed. He asserted: “I am human capable of making mistakes, a loyal citizen that is not above the law, therefore I can submit myself for legitimate scrutiny and not this mere media trial.” Senator Wamakko, who is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Defence, and Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption, said he had been living a simple life right from his class teacher status, till he became the state governor and his current status. “I believe in God that gives power to whom he wishes and it’s the Almighty that raised my political carrier to the present status and I have the belief that He, the Almighty, only could bring me down.” Bafarawa submits petition against Wamakko at EFCC Wamakko berates Bafarawa over corruption petition at EFCC Bafarawa’s trial, Wamakko and the EFCC’s Shenanigans OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY