Two men have been arrested by the Rapid Response Squad, Lagos State Police Command, for their alleged involvement in the theft of a Taxify Toyota Corolla car in Lekki, Lagos, in February 2019. Also arrested were three other men who allegedly participated in selling the car to a dealer in Republic of Benin for N250,000. The suspects – Michael Sosa, 27; Nelson Benson, 24; Idowu Dauda, 30; 29-year-old Owolabi Shobayo, alias Daju pa (Heartless) and 43-year-old Biliaminu Abu, alias Gengen – were all arrested in the Ijoko and Otta areas of Ogun State last week. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Sosa, described as a “yahoo fraudster”, one Dosunmu, said to be at large, and one Idowu Samuel, were said to have boarded a Taxify ride from Agungi Estate to Lagos Island. According to Sosa, “At Abraham Adesanya Estate, Lekki, I told the driver I wanted to ease myself. He stopped the car and we alighted. While I pretended to be urinating, Dosumu poured dried pepper he had bought in traffic in a bottle water of water and allowed the substance to dissolve well. “We got back into the car. The Taxify driver was about to start the car when Dosumu poured the mixture on his head. He screamed and jumped out of the car. He started shouting for help. I got on his seat and drove the car away from the scene. “I drove to the road leading to Alpha Beach, where we stopped for some hours because we suspected we were being followed. At about 4am on Sunday, I proceeded to Agege via Agidingbi and dropped Dosunmu in Omole. I picked Benson at Agege Stadium. He was to direct us through routes that would save us from encountering the police on our way to Ijoko, Ogun State. “We sold the Toyota Corolla Sport for N250,000. We would have sold it higher than that but for the papers that were not available.” The suspects had been transferred to SARS for further investigation.  2 arrested for killing Uber cab driver 3 arrested over attempt to snatch UBER 2 men nabbed by the police over phone theft