Schools in Kwara State would not accept any instructional materials with pictures of any personality, according to a statement issued by Press Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Yakub K. Aliagan. This follows allegations that instructional materials donated to public schools in Kwara from the Mandate Office of former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki had pictures or other insignias of the former senate president. Information on social media also alleged that those materials were rejected at the schools and there have been calls on the government to speak on the development. The statement claimed that the state government was not aware of the distribution of the instructional materials in the first instance. The statement read, “The appropriate thing to do is to send those materials to the Ministry of Education, which has a statutory duty of vetting learning materials for quality control and then approve such for distribution. Not doing so was a violation of a basic rule, which is key to strengthening our institutions and keeping standards. “Besides, it is wrong for anyone to emblazon their images or personal logos on instructional materials made with public resources for distribution in public schools. The said materials were some sort of Constituency Projects, which had been approved and funded by the Federal Government of Nigeria. “It is instructive to note that the Kwara State Ministry of Education recently approached Governor AbdulRahmanAbdulRazaq to mass-produce instructional materials with his picture emblazoned on them ahead of school resumption and the governor rejected the proposal on the ground that there should be no personalisation of projects executed with public funds,” it said. ‘Public schools now more attractive in Kwara’ Kwara commends FG for adopting State’s 'Every Child Counts’ model Adding value to Kwara constituents OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY