A customary court sitting in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, has dissolved the 11-year-old marriage between Olawunmi Falana and his wife, Funke. The court attributed its reasons for dissolving the marriage yesterday to frequent fighting with dangerous weapons and curses on Funke’s part, as alleged by her husband. Falana had appeared again before the court on July 9, 2019 after the court’s advice to him to seek an amicable settlement with his wife proved abortive, as the wife shunned court proceedings. The petitioner, 35, a resident of No 62, Ogbontuntun Street, Oraye, Ise-Ekiti, stated that his wife was fond of leaving the house at will, cursing him and starving him of his meals. He said her stubbornness often generated into fights between them. He narrated an occasion he came back from work and did not meet her, and when he called her on her phone to come back home, though she replied she would, didn’t come back until the third day. He added that on her arrival, rather than be remorseful, Funke started cursing him, slapped him and inflicted injuries on his body as she roughened him up. He alleged there were other occasions Funke beat him with dangerous objects like pestle and wood, and also threatened him with a knife. He accused his wife of promiscuity, saying he once caught her feeding another man. The petitioner, therefore, prayed the court to dissolve the union and award him custody of the three children their marriage produced. The court noted that the respondent had shunned appearance throughout the proceedings though she was served hearing notice twice. The president of the court, Mrs Olayinka Akomolede, observed that the marriage had broken down irretrievably and consequently dissolved it.  Court dissolves 13-year-old marriage over irreconcilable differences Court dissolves 10-year-old marriage in Ekiti Court dissolves 9-yr-old marriage over religion, frequent fighting OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY