The Kaduna Electricity Company (KAEDCO) has said that there is nothing wrong with its distribution of electricity in Kebbi state. The company said the incessant load shedding was associated with its grappling with hardship as a result of non-payment of bills by electricity consumers in the state. On Monday some residents of Birnin Kebbi took to the streets to protest over what they described as erratic power supply in the state capital, Birnin Kebbi. The State Area Manager, Dogara Sa’idu in a statement said in the last three months the company was generating just one third of what it was paying to the electricity generating company it buys power from as revenue. This, he said, has made the company unable to meet some of its commitments to other business partners as well as servicing the network. He assured that there was enough electricity for supply to the State but KAEDCO cannot continue to provide the services at a loss. Meanwhile, the state government has implored electricity consumers in the state to cooperate with the  distribution company by making  prompt payment of their bills to enhance efficient services. It would be recalled that the government has expended close to N1bn on the payment of electricity bills to ensure the steady supply of electricity to all parts of the state. It has also provided transformers and other heavy and light electrical installations in the past four years to guarantee 24 hours  supply of electricity. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information, Alhaji  Shu’aibu Aliero has called on officials of KAEDCO to make concerted efforts to improve its services including timely distribution of bills and collection of payment for electricity bills. However,  reacting to the explanation given by KAEDCO, a tailor in Nasarawa area of the state capital Malam Muhammed Abdullahi said it could not be true that many of the electricity consumers in the town are not paying their bills. He said: “That is not true,  I think they are just looking for excuses because many of us are even being over charged every month for electricity we did not use yet we were made to pay.” Another  consumer, David Oweh, a barber at Rafin Atiku area in Birnin Kebbi, also refuted the claim saying since KAEDCO introduced what they called estimated bill it has been difficult for him to operate his business efficiently for fear of the huge bills he will incur  every month. “I can no longer use my air conditioner, fridge  and  some other appliances because of huge bills I am made to pay every month”, he said. A welder at the mechanic village area of the town, Ademola Ibikunle also said it was not right to say KAEDCO was running at a loss in the state with what government is giving them every month to ensure there is steady supply of electricity.  Steady power supply puts generator dealers out of  business in Kebbi Kebbi residents groan under frequent power outage Kebbi residents protest over erratic power supply OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY