The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) and National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) are to harmonise data of candidates for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination to reduce cost of registration and check underage registration. The collaboration was announced in Abuja yesterday at a stakeholders’ meeting among JAMB, NIMC and the Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR). Addressing reporters after the meeting, the JAMB Registrar, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, said the partnership became necessary to ensure that candidates who were eligible to sit for the examination were captured. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “So, those who are doing registration will collaborate with NIMC to make sure that we pay for one and you get two. A candidate will spend six years in primary school, secondary school six years making 12 years. “If you are fortunate one way or the other and save one, two, three years of excessive speed. “So, for me, if we have 15 years as they have agreed, nobody who is below 15 years should register; and anybody who is below 15 years let’s come and address that person specifically,” he said. Earlier, the Director General of NIMC, Mr Aliyu Aziz Abubakar, said the commission got the approval of the Federal Executive Council mandating all private and government agencies to ensure that their data met NIMC standard. Abubakar said the idea was to enable NIMC duplicate those data for national security and development. The NIMC boss said a technical committee would be set up to ensure that the partnership achieved the desired result. Mr Dasuki Arabi, Director General of Bureau of BPSR, said “the aim of facilitating the partnership between JAMB and NIMC was to bring the agencies up to speed in line with the National Strategic Plan on Public Service Reforms.’’(NAN) JAMB earns N31bn in 5 years, remits N15m JAMB releases results for 1.7m candidates JAMB registers 1.8 million candidates for 2019 UTME