The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the February 23, 2019 poll, Atiku Abubakar has assured Nigerians of his determination to rid what he termed forces of fascism and tyranny in the court. The former Vice President in a statement yesterday by his Media Office, said he would ensure that the votes of Nigerians in the election counted by pursuing his case in the court to a logical conclusion. Atiku said Nigeria must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to freedom of speech and freedom after the speech were guaranteed, adding that Nigerians must stand together to pursue this just cause. “It is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that I am pursuing this judicial route to ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted. “Yes, those who do not want this as Nigeria’s reality, will use every trick in the book to undermine, discourage, misinform and mislead, but with God’s help and the support of Nigerians, we will ensure that Nigeria makes a course correction away from tyranny and towards democracy. “I note the immense outpouring of goodwill from ordinary Nigerians in every nook and cranny of Nigeria and from all regions, religions and relationships. Once again I thank you all for your support. “I also thank the governors elected on the platform of my party, the PDP as well as the National Executive Committee, for their unanimous and unambiguous support for the judicial phase of this struggle, especially after it was announced that we would go on to appeal. “I urge all Nigerians to continue their support for this recourse to constitutional order via the courts. Even if there is little or nothing you can do to ensure that justice is done in Nigeria, just believe that it will happen. Let us never underestimate the effect of our belief in Nigeria,” Atiku said. The former Vice President was defeated at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal days ago but vowed to appeal the judgement at the Supreme Court. Why I am pursuing judicial option for my mandate — Atiku 2019 election: Group to mobilize 10 million votes for Atiku June 12 a threshold moment in our national life — Atiku OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY