The governorship election petition tribunal sitting in Kano, yesterday, reserved judgment in a petition filed by the PDP and its governorship candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf, challenging the victory of Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. The three-man tribunal, led by Justice Halima S. Muhammad, said it will communicate the date to the parties affected once it is fixed. At yesterday’s sitting, final written addresses by all the parties were adopted. Counsel to INEC, Ahmed Raji (SAN), while elaborating his written address, argued that the latitude placed on counsel was to present true certified copies of document to prove his case. He alleged that the bulk of documents presented by the petitioners were pink copies, hence urged the court to dismiss the case. Also in his written address, counsel to Governor Ganduje, Offiong Offiong (SAN), argued that where an election result was challenged, the petitioner must provide two tables, one for the election result declared by INEC and the other for the scores he considered as correct. Offiong said the petitioners failed to provide those two tables, thereby relying on the INEC result. He also urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition. On his part, counsel to APC, Alex Izinyon (SAN), argued that the petitioners have made a categorical assertion that the cancellation of results in 207 polling units by INEC was unlawful and unjustifiable, but they failed to prove that. He urged the court to dismiss the case. Mr Kanu Agabi (SAN), who spoke on behalf of the petitioners, said “our contention is that the first petitioner scored the majority of lawful votes cast in the March 9 election.” He alleged that INEC had admitted that the election was concluded and result was announced but they failed to declare the winner. He therefore urged the court to declare his client as the winner. Osun Governorship: Adeleke, PDP urge tribunal to uphold their petition Ortom/Jime: Tribunal reserves judgement in Benue guber tussle Governorship election: El-Rufai to know fate Sept. 9 OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY