The National Sugar Development Council (NSDC) has called on the Federal Government to explore the production of bio-energy from sugarcane factories to improve power output in the country The Director of Policy Planning, Research and Statistics at NSDC, Mr.  Kolawole Hezekiah, made the call at the “2nd Nigeria Sugar Technology Symposium” in Lagos where sugar industry stakeholders met to deliberate best practices in moving the sugar industry forward. Hezekiah disclosed that the country was set to generate between 600,000 to 750,000 metric tonnes of sugar annually by 2022 to 2023 as it continuously work to achieve the Nigeria Sugar Master Plan. He also urged upcoming sugar factories to build plants that generate power from sugarcane production to cushion Nigeria’s power deficit. Speaking on the sidelines on the state of sugar production nationwide, Hezekiah said, “Our demand for sugar is high, but we are approaching an advanced stage whereby when all the investments have come to fruition, we should be harnessing between 600,000 to 750,000 metric tonnes of sugar, and this would come up by 2022 to 2023. “The projection is that Nigeria should be able to produce 1.8 million metric tonnes of sugar on an annual basis and by that time we will be able to fully implement the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan and generate about 411 Megawatts (MW) of electricity. So it is from all companies that it would harness. They would utilise some of it and they can also sell to the national grid for the benefit of the whole country. “We are very much on track on the policy. The policy we have is being implemented to the letter. Yes, there are challenges, but it is also being addressed along the way. We are full of hope and we believe that at the end of 10 years of implementation, like I said the projection is 1.8 million metric tonnes, but we should be able to get around half because of the various challenges.”  Minister commissions sugarcane bio-factory in Kwara Why Nigeria still not self-sufficient in sugar production How the sugar sub-sector can be sweet again OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY