The National Vice Chairman, North East, of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Mustapha Salihu, says President Muhammadu Buhari remains best candidate despite the challenge from former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who is from his geo-political zone. Comrade Salihu said this in an interview with journalists at the party National Secretariat in Abuja after a meeting the APC stakeholders from Adamawa state over the weekend. The APC official, who also hailed from the same State with Atiku, said he was happy with the victory of President Buhari at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal over the Wazirin Adamawa while reacting to the verdict on the election. “Even if Atiku is our son but we know who is the best,” he said. Comrade Salihu, who said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was tricked to believe that INEC server was used to transmit election results during the last poll, said it was clear from the ruling that no law backed the use of such server for the election. He said, “some people jobbed them, took their money telling them there was INEC server somewhere when that was not true and so, they could not establish a prima facie case. This is a victory for Nigeria and the Nigerian people and not for APC alone. We have now done away with the distractions and this government is going to deliver the dividends of democracy and the next level is assured. The outcome of the tribunal was something that was expected.” On the stakeholders’ meeting, Comrade Salihu said a committee had been set up to purse reconciliation drive in Adamawa State. He said the meeting was convened to not only deepen consultation and reconciliation but also to synergise on how to rebuild the party in the state. “Politics is war without bloodshed. When people put their interest and vie for position, there will be discrepancies and some people will gain while others will lose. At the end of the day, we all come together and work. Atiku scammed over INEC server pursuit – APC Buhari, APC jittery over collapsing defence at Tribunal – PDP Presidential election: Atiku wins Adamawa State OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY