The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, says it has targeted about 70, 000 farmers and business under its Anchor Borrower Programme (ABP) in Borno for 2019. Mr Mahmood Nyako, the Head of Finance Development Office (DFO) of the CBN in Maiduguri, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Maiduguri on Sunday. Nyako disclosed that the bank had initiated viable programmes to encourage production, transform value chain, enhance financial inclusion and encourage growth of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMSEs). He said that the apex bank adopted practical measures to finance the whole value chain to encourage agricultural activities, enhance enterprising skills and specialisation to achieve self-sufficiency. Nyako listed the programmes to include ABP; Accelerated Agriculture Development Scheme (AADS), Agriculture Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (ACGSF), and Agri-Business Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS), among others. He revealed that 52, 008 were expected to participate in the ABP and 500 big holder farmers under ACGSF while 17, 000 youths and businesses would be supported under AADS and AGSMEIS, respectively. The official explained that bank had registered eight farmers’ associations, a number of private and prime anchors to provide inputs and other support services to farmers for dry season activities under ABP. Nyako added that about N1.5 billion fund would be provided to the state government to open up 10, 000 hectares of farmlands while the bank provide inputs for distribution to youth to fast track implementation of AADS programme. According to him, the apex bank would also provide loan facilities to 7, 000 youths and businesses under the AGSMEIS scheme in the state. While calling on the state and local government councils to sensitise the people to promote participation in the programmes, Nyako urged the beneficiaries to make effective utilisation of the facilities to ensure sustainability. (NAN) So, Nigeria’s now highest rice producer in Africa? 4 policies to watch in Emefiele’s 2nd term CBN disbursed N25.4bn to facilitate non-oil products in 2018 – Director OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY