The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Niger State, has rejected the administrative charges imposed on candidates contesting the November 30, 2019, local government election by the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). The chairman of the party in the state, Barrister Tanko Beji, told newsmen in Minna that the party has written to the SIEC to withdraw the decision which he described as illegal and unconstitutional. He warned that if the commission failed to do so, the party will have no option than to head to court on the matter. The SIEC in a memo to all registered political parties in the state signed by its Secretary, Alhaji Abdullahi Bobi, asked all chairmanship and vice chairmanship candidates contesting in the election to pay administrative charges of N100,000 each while councillorship candidates would each pay N20,000. With the development, PDP which is fielding 50 chairmanship and vice chairmanship candidates as well as 274 councillorship candidates the party is expected to pay N10,480,000. “We will not pay; we are not obliged to pay because it is not our responsibility to fund the public project. There is nowhere in the country that this is done. “We aware that the state INEC submitted its budget to the state government and the government, we learnt, has graciously approved the budget. It is pursuant to that that the commission released the timetable for the election; it couldn’t have released the timetable without money to conduct the election. “As a party therefore, PDP has resolved not to make any financial commitment to the commission to enable it conduct the election,” he said. He however said the anomaly will not stop the party from participating in the forthcoming election, adding that it has concluded all arrangements for the poll. “To show our readiness, it is only the PDP that has complied with the electoral guidelines. We have submitted the names of all our candidates; we have done what is expected but we cannot be caged by the commission by demanding that we must pay the sum of N4,480,000 to them,” Beji said. Katsina LG polls: APC heads to court as 5 parties field candidates PDP clears council seats, to be sworn in today SIEC fixes July 31 for LG election in Niger OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY