A landlord in Umudim Nnewi, Nnewi North local Government Area, Anambra state, Mr. Ernest Obidike and his son, Onyeka Obidike, have allegedly beaten one of their tenants, Miss Ogochukwu Igwe to coma. Miss. Igwe, who runs hair dressing salon, was beaten to a coma for asking the duo to stop using their vehicles to block her shop. Trouble started for Miss Ugochukwu when last Friday, at about 6 p.m., the landlord  arrived  his house, parked his car in front of the salon thereby blocking the shop  which did not go down well with Miss Igwe. Speaking to South East Trust on her bed at Glory Hospital and Maternity, Umudim Nnewi, she said, “I pleaded with him to shift the car to stop the blockage but instead of yielding to my plea, the landlord told me that I shall pack out of the shop and that he would deal with me  when his son, Onyeka, returns in the evening. “True to his threat, at about 6. pm Onyeka arrived, made straight to his father and after some minutes came into my salon and used a drier to hit me. As if that was not enough, he held me by the neck and strangled me and I became unconcious and fell down. “The next thing was I woke up and saw myself  at Glory hospital and Maternity, Umudim Nnewi being treated,’’ she said. She said later a police woman visited her from the Central Police Station Nnewi, who took her statement and told her that Onyeka had been arrested while his father was on the run. “I later learnt that he was granted bail. I am urging the State commissioner of police, Mr John Abang, to come to my rescue by ensuring that the father and son, who conspired, beat and strangled me to coma, face the wrath of the law,”  Miss Ugochukwu  said. Meanwhile, counsel to the victim has written to the Commissioner of Police urging for his quick intervention in the case. Barr Kanayo C. Muoneke, in a petition, said his client was just lucky to have survived the assault on her. “For now the victim cannot conveniently eat because of the injuries sustained while the suspects are celebrating her fate” The Divisional Police Officer,  Nnewi Central Police Station was not available when South East Trust went to the station for confirmation, however, a senior police officer who pleaded anonymity said, “we are investigating the case”. Also contacted the state Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Mr Haruna Mohammed, said he was busy as he was on a familiarization tour with the Commissioner of Police.  We live peacefully with our hosts, says Hausa community in Nnewi Landlords kick against use of charcoal, firewood, for cooking by tenants in Anambra How Anambra traditional ruler was suspended over kola nuts OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY