The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has called on stakeholders to create more awareness on its recently launched Micro Pension Plan that caters for the informal work sector and artisans. Director General of PenCom Mrs Aisha Dahiru-Umar made the call when she received the Chief Executive Officer and Editor-In-Chief of Media Trust Limited, Malam Mannir Dan-Ali, during a courtesy visit. Mrs Dahiru-Umar pledged to support Media Trust Limited, publishers of Daily Trust newspapers and other titles, on their proposed micro pension summit where pension experts and stakeholders would converge to create awareness. The Micro Pension Plan was launched by President Muhammadu Buhari this year to cater to the pension needs of the informal sector workers, artisans and operators of Small and Medium scale Enterprises (SMEs). She said, “We are happy to partner with you.  Anything that is with the Micro Pension Plan, we will support you. “It is difficult to convince the SMEs and artisans on embracing pension scheme because they feel government has failed them severally and some think people will take their money and run away. “The more enlightenment on the plan, the better it is especially with this kind of summit,” she noted. The PenCom boss commended the management of Media Trust for upholding objectivity and fairness in its reportage,  noting that Daily Trust is the only paper that has dedicated a weekly page to reporting pension activities. “It is a fact that the paper has objectivity and that is a big deal.  I think the integrity of your reporters is legendary… and if we must patronise  papers in the commission, for us it is Trust and others.” She promise to study the proposal from the organisation to ensure their partnership works. Earlier,  the CEO/E-I-C of Media Trust,  Malam Dan-Ali commended PenCom for its patronage in readership, advert placements and sponsorships. He presented proposals to the PenCom boss which are the proposed micro pension summit; the Teen Trust publication, which he urged the commission to subscribe to and distribute copies to children to promote reading culture in Nigeria. “We encourage corporate bodies like PenCom and individuals to subscribe if they wish,  to give copies to children especially in their alma mater.” Mal. Dan-Ali also urged PenCom to support the Daily Trust brand page on Fridays by placing the PenCom brand on it to attract more readers to its activities.  We’re targeting 30m contributors by 2024 with micro pension- PenCom boss FG launches micro pension plan How PFAs are implementing micro pension plan OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY