Changes observed in the lives of the children growing up in the middle of the Boko Haram conflict have aroused grave concern among International NGOs and other stakeholders in the management of the Northeast humanitarian crisis. The violent conflicts changed their lives in the long-term, according to Medecines Sans Frontieres (MSF), an INGO. “They have no access to school or healthcare, and do not get proper nutrition or vaccinations,” the INGO said in a statement by its Field Communication Manager in Borno, Yuno Cho. “There is also a chance of being orphaned, and for girls there is the danger of being forced into marriage. For young girls, there is the added risk of difficult deliveries if they become pregnant. “In a camp in Pulka, I met two girls, aged 15 and 16, who were from the same village and had arrived together. The first was pregnant and the second already had a six-month-old baby. “They were forced to marry members of an armed group. They didn’t have any relatives to join in the camp. All they had were the clothes they were wearing; one of them didn’t have shoes. Nothing else. They looked lost. “They were forced to marry when they were around 12 or even younger, and have been abused since then.’’ The organization said from January to June 2019, it identified 320 unaccompanied children among people who had newly arrived in Pulka from areas controlled by armed opposition groups, from other camps, or returning from Cameroon, who need protection and other assistance. “Identifying unaccompanied children is key to ensuring their protection – if they are not identified when they arrive, they can lose out on important support and will be exposed to all kinds of risks associated with their vulnerability. “There are child-headed households with too much responsibility placed on them, where children have to take care of their younger siblings. “The situation in the transit camp makes providing this protection even more challenging; People are crammed into communal shelters with no privacy; some are forced to sleep outside, exposing them to further risk,’’ it said.  10 years of B/Haram: Humanitarian needs unmet – MSF World Humanitarian Day How cholera outbreak ravages IDP camps in Maiduguri OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY