Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike said that he congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari after the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal confirmed his election because it is better to offer public congratulations than visit the President at night. Governor Wike said that unlike some governors of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) who visit President Muhammadu Buhari at night,  he made his declaration public  because  it came from the heart. Speaking at a funeral in Emohua on Thursday, he said, “I am sure all of you are surprised that I congratulated Buhari. Is it not good for me to congratulate him, than to go to his house in the night?” “So many PDP Govenrors go to see him in his house in the night. I have never gone and I will not go. I won’t go.” “We are  the only state that the Federal Government refused to pay us our money used to execute  Federal  projects because I don’t go to see him in the night and I won’t go. He is not my friend, he is not doing well, but he won in court, should I say that the court did wrong, no.” “President Buhari, congratulations and carry Nigerians along. Unify the country, the country is too divided. I am saying what is right. What I will do, I will do, what I will not do, I will not do.” Governor Wike said politics is a game of interest,  noting that Rivers people in the All Progressives Congress are under obligation to attract Federal benefits to the state. ‘Politics is a game of interest.  And my only interest is Rivers State . Anything that is against the interest of Rivers State,  I will  not agree. “These people sold us out, thinking that they are doing Governor Wike.  It is the State that you are offending, because I am just one person.” Governor Wike expressed displeasure that Rivers State has key links to President Muhammadu Buhari from the State, yet the East West Road, the seaports and other Federal projects have been completely neglected since 2015. He said nothing indicates that Rivers State has prominent APC members working with President Muhammadu Buhari. End of the road for Nyesom Wike Still on the elaborate social reception for Amaechi Mama Taraba, Bindow dump Atiku, remain in APC OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY