A Lagos customary court, sitting in Badagry, has dissolved a 41-year-old marriage after the couple failed to reach an amicable settlement of their differences. The court, presided over by Barrister Sikiru Adekola, held that it was glaring that the parties were determined to end the marital union even after the court referred them to alternative dispute resolution sessions. The petitioner, Mr Jacob Nwosu, of Church Avenue, Ijanikin, Lagos State, told the court that his wife, Adetoun, had lost affection for him and they no longer enjoyed the intimacy expected of husband and wife. “There is no more love between us,” Nwosu said. He stated that Adetoun would rather visit her family and abandon him for many weeks. He also accused her of instigating the children against him to the extent that they no longer respect him, as expected in their custom. He added that the wife’s constant quarrels with him were having a toll on his health and he had resorted to keeping late nights with friends to avoid her incessant nagging. Adetoun, 59, denied her husband’s allegations against her, and instead accused him of engaging in amorous relationships such that he kept late nights and indulged in alcoholism. She said she had to abandon the home for him as she could no longer cope with his alcoholic indulgence. Adetoun confirmed she didn’t have any affection for Nwosu anymore and that there was no more love between them. She prayed the court to grant the petitioner’s prayer as she, too, was no longer interested in the union. The court, therefore, dissolved the marriage. “The children are already adults, hence the issue of custody is immaterial in this case,” Barrister Adekola said. The four children in the marriage are 40, 38, 36 and 32 years old. Court dissolves clergy's 41-year-old marriage over incest I caught another woman cooking for my husband, wife tells court Pastor wants court dissolve his marriage, says he is tired of being brutalised by his wife OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY