The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said the Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) should play stronger role in the industry by embracing effective self-regulation. A statement yesterday quoted the CBN Deputy Director, Other Financial Institutions Department, Mustafa Haruna as saying this during the Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA) Mutual Evaluation Exercise Sensitisation workshop for South West Bureaux de Change (BDCs) in Lagos. Haruna said there was need for BDCs to ensure compliance with extant Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) laws  and  regulations  to  mitigate  the  risks  and vulnerabilities in the sub-sector. He said ABCON should develop and implement a code of conduct for members to promote ethical practices and transparency in the sector while also continually advising the apex bank on market intelligence on key industry issues. Also speaking, ABCON President Alhaji (Dr.) Aminu Gwadabe, said the association had consistently advised BDCs to put in place and implement, a system of internal policies, procedures and controls including Know Your Customer, Customer Due Diligence and reporting all suspicious transactions to regulators. He said ABCON is also training BDCs on regular basis on the need to keep transaction records, and get a designated compliance officer that has day-to-day oversight over AML/CFT programme. Gwadabe also said the compliance officers have been taught the rules in preparing Suspicious Transaction Reports (STRs), and rendering STRs’ returns to the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU). The ABCON boss said the group had over the years established itself as a key player in the BDC industry, and has also made several commitments and sacrifices to ensure that the sector continues to thrive and its members follow global best practices in the retail of foreign exchange to end users. He said BDCs have met and will continue to meet a number of compliance requirements specified by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and local regulators. The operators, he added,  have conducted enhanced due diligence, a major compliance requirement on some high-risk customers. The collation and reporting of foreign currency transactions and suspicious transactions by BDCs are now fully automated. The ABCON president said the association, in February, launched its Live Run Automation Portal in Lagos. The technology automates all BDC operations with those of Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS), NFIU and the CBN to improve the level of compliance of the BDCs with set regulations. CBN should make us direct agents of IMTOs - ABCON CBN directive: ABCON to activate over 4,000 official e-mails ABCON, NFIU train BDCs on anti-money laundering reporting OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY