There is disquiet in the auto industry following the announcement by the federal government that it has suspended the 2013 auto policy bill. The bill tagged ‘National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill’, was the brainchild of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. After over two years of legislative work on it, the eighth National Assembly passed the bill into law but President Muhammadu Buhari declined assent to it. The refusal of the president to sign the bill was greeted with shock by some stakeholders who saw that as a setback to the industry. But at the weekend, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, said in Lagos that the federal government had decided to suspend the bill. He said a fresh auto policy bill would be sent to the National Assembly which would contain the inputs and views of auto stakeholders, private sector operators and the interest of Nigerians in order to achieve inclusive industrialization growth in vehicles manufacturing in the country. He said, “When this new administration came in this year and I was appointed as the minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, the automotive policy is one of the things my ministry looked at. Unfortunately, a bill has been prepared by the former administration and it was brought to the attention of Mr. President to sign by the previous National Assembly, having passed the bill. “Then when Mr. President received it, he passed it to the stakeholders and from the responses he received from them, he felt that it was not well received and accepted by them. That is why he refused to assent to it. “What we have decided to do in my ministry is to engage all the stakeholders and we are going to start a fresh auto policy and get it right. The last one that was done was not gone well and we want to get it right this time around. “So, we are going to engage all the stakeholders. Within the next couple of weeks, I want to visit all assembly plants in the country and call a meeting of all the owners of such plants for us to deliberate on a new auto policy for the country.” The announcement by the minister has however generated mixed reactions in the industry as some stakeholders argue that the outright suspension of the policy was not the best. A former Acting Director-General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Mr. Mamudu Lukman, said the minister must have been wrongly advised. He said the auto policy bill was designed with input from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). “If indeed the minister said what is published, then it must have been out of ignorance. Those responsible to brief him should be held accountable. Not him. He has barely resumed and perhaps is not aware that he cannot unilaterally suspend a regional policy. It was negotiated with ECOWAS. He can review.” A board member representing the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) at NADDC, Dr. David Chukwudi Obi, said government should give the industry legal backing through the auto policy which, he noted, would reverse the retrogression in the industry. He said government should consult widely with stakeholders if it wants to come up with a new bill, adding, the country is not presently assembling. “If they want to re-write the bill, fine, because a lot of things are wrong in the bill. We are not assembling vehicles for now; what we have are screw driver assembly plants”, he added. Rejection of auto policy Bill causes disquiet in automobile industry ‘450,000-capacity plants churn out 15,000 vehicles in five years’ Uncertainty trails Auto Policy bill OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY