One of the governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded primaries of the party, Mr Keniebi Okoko, has congratulated the winner of the primary and the party’s flag bearer for November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa state, Senator Douye Diri. Okoko, who came third in the contest, said in a statement on Thursday in Yenagoa that he and his team will work for the success of the party during the general election. He said: “After due consultations with my team, I have formally visited the winner, Senator Douye Diri, to personally congratulate him on his victory. I have also been in touch with my brother, Chief Timi Alaibe, to support our great party to success.” “In this regard, I have decided to fully support the winner of the PDP primaries, Senator Diri in the interest of Bayelsa and the PDP and to work for his victory in the November 16 governorship election. We cannot afford to lose this state to the opposition. “Like I said earlier, the future ahead of us looks even more blazing. In my private capacity, I have done my utmost best to lift the people of my state in my own little way. I will not relent! Together, we can achieve much more. Let’s keep the faith. “While we leave the bickering occasioned by the politics of the time behind, I have also reminded myself that I went into the race not for personal reasons, but out of the conviction that I could genuinely make a huge difference in the lives of our people if given a bigger platform. “Though things have not worked as planned, we see this as a temporary setback in our quest to truly make Bayelsa a 21st century compliant, forward-looking state which will be the envy of other states. We remain undeterred in this pursuit. “I want to thank the people of Bayelsa for their unwavering support and steadfast love and prayers throughout this process. Let me say that I do not take for granted the sacrifice made by my teeming supporters who were there in the rain and in the sun to ensure we emerged victorious. “Also deserving of commendation is the former President of Nigeria, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, who played the role of a father throughout the entire process. Same can be said of the governor of our great state, Hon. Seriake Dickson,” he said. How Diri won Bayelsa PDP gov’ship ticket Diri wins Bayelsa PDP governorship primaries Bayelsa gov’ship: I won’t support any candidate outside restoration team — Dickson OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY