There is heightened anxiety in states and local councils across Nigeria over unpaid pension and gratuity. Checks show that pensioners have recently staged protests in Abia, Bauchi, Benue and Osun States demanding their retirement entitlements. Daily Trust looks at the issues, including pensioners’ demands and excuses of state governments and local councils for the delays in payment. Gratuity not paid for 19yrs in Abia Recently, pensioners in Abia State stated a protest to demand for the payment of 32 months of pension arrears and 19 years of unpaid gratuity. The pensioners, who protested under the umbrella of Abia Concerned Pensioners, released a statement signed by its chairman, Amaugo Daniel and secretary, Okezie Emeka. The statement disclosed that from 2014 till date, pensioners have not been paid pension, in addition to owed gratuity of 19 years, and non-harmonisation of pensions from 1998 to 2010. Clad in black, the pensioners, mostly aged persons, demonstrated on the streets and chanted solidarity songs to intensify their demands. The pensioners lamented that some of them earn as low as N500 per month without a pension enhancement for a long time. During a state broadcast to mark the 28th anniversary of the creation of the state on August 27th this year, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu begged pensioners to be patient with him over unpaid pensions. Some pensioners receive N3, 000 monthly in Bauchi In Bauchi State, there is a similar anxiety over non-payment of pension, gratuity and low pension being paid to retirees. Recently, the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) disclosed that some pensioners are paid as low as N3, 000. In a recent statement, NUP National Vice President, Northeast, Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Ahmad, pleaded with the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammed, to pay outstanding gratuities owed to pensioners and review pension as stipulated by Nigeria Constitution. “Our prayers are settlement of all gratuity and pension arrears and upward review of monthly pension every five years or where there is increase in salary and wages to civil servants whichever comes earlier. We are calling on government at all levels to frame a reliable blueprint for the development of the teeming Nigerian pensioners,” Alhaji Ahmad said. He called for upward review of monthly pension as many pensioners in Nigeria receive peanuts as pension. Section 173(3) and section 210 of the 1999 constitution as amended provided that pension must be reviewed every five years or together with any increase in civil servants salary whichever comes earlier. However, the Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, paid N100 million in August and N200 million in September, 2019 to both local government and state pensioners. Non-payment of N28bn unpaid pension, gratuities in Benue The situation of unpaid retirement entitlements is no different in Benue State as recently, pensioners occupied the state’s Government House in Makurdi to protest the non-payment of their pension allowances and gratuities running to N28 billion. The Chairman of Concerned Pensioners, Peter Kyado, who led the protest, pleaded for the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari to solve the problem of unpaid pension for 25 months in Benue State. “I know that we lose four to five pensioners every week and in a month, we record between 20 and 30 deaths of pensioners while some of them are getting stroke on daily basis,” Kyado said. The Benue State Chairman of Pension Commission, Mr Terna Ahuwa, sought for the patience and understanding of the protesting pensioners to allow the State Government solve the problem. Pensioners divided in Osun State The 2011 to 2012 faction of retirees in Osun State protested over alleged unpaid pension of 15 months in Osogbo recently. However, it appeared that not all pensioners supported the protest as the Chairman of the Osun State Triangular Group of Pensioners, Prince Rotimi Adelugba, condemned the protest and debunked the claims of the protesters. Adelugba said that not all the pensioners were being owed 15 months pension arrears. Some Governors making progress There are clear indications that some State Governors are making efforts to pay pension and gratuity in their states. For instance, NUP National Vice President, Northeast, Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Ahmad, revealed that Governor Babagana Umar Zulum of Borno State paid N1 billion for July/August to the Borno state pensioners. He also said that Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State paid N1.1 billion to state pensioners and Governor Mai-Mala Buni of Yobe State paid N600 million to settle the backlog of gratuity. He revealed that Adamawa and Taraba States pensioners were still not paid their gratuities. States reluctant to implement CPS Daily Trust’s findings show that State Governments are reluctant in implementing the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) despite the burdensome nature of the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). Information obtained from PenCom showed that though 24 states have enacted laws on the CPS, less than 10 are implementing the scheme. Six states have drafted CPS bills, three states have embarked on pension reform but chose not to adopt the CPS while one has elected to continue with the DBS. In a recent interview with Daily Trust, the acting Director General of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), Aisha Umar-Dahir, said the commission’s regulatory oversight of States and Local Governments pension schemes is to promote and offer technical assistance in line with the objectives of the scheme. “There is a positive correlation between performance of states under the Defined Benefits Scheme and the adoption of the CPS by states. Most states that were doing well in the payment of retirement benefits under the Defined Benefits Scheme were more favourably disposed to adopting the CPS,” she said.  Pension funds: How states are sending retirees to early graves Despite Paris refund, over 10 states owe salaries, pensions Oyo pensioners sue Gov Ajimobi over N42.3bn unpaid gratuities, pensions OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY