Contrary to reports circulating on social media, the governor of Nasarawa state, Engr. Abdullahi Sule, has said his administration has no plan to dissolve the thirteen elected local government chairmen. Engineer Sule made this known while hosting the thirteen local government chairmen from the state when they visited him at the Government House on Monday. The governor dismissed the alleged report of LG dissolution, stressing that as a law abiding citizen, he will not be found wanting breaching the law. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “In the process of my trip, I saw a report that this administration was going to dissolve the local governments and institute new chairmen. “The way you saw it was the way I saw it. I’ve never even thought of anything like that. It has never crossed my mind; nobody ever advised us on anything in that line. And I never dreamt of it and if the deputy governor dreamt of it, he never told me,” the governor told the chairmen. Engineer Sule said as far as his administration was concerned, “you are working with us as a team in order for us to work towards developing this state and taking this state to the next level. If the law said you are taking ten years, A. A Sule will allow you to spend your ten years.” While calling on the council chairmen to ignore the said report, Engr. Sule assured them that his administration will not short-change the mandate giving to them by the people. The governor used the opportunity to appeal to members and supporters of opposition political parties to avoid acts capable of breaching the existing peace in the state. Engineer Sule warned that for the state to develop, citizens of the state must learn to accept outcomes of judgements from ongoing cases at the various election petitions tribunal without recourse to acts that are inimical to peace. The council chairmen, according to the state ALGON Chairman, who is also the Chairman, Lafia Local Government Area, Muazu Maifata, were at the Lafia Government House to welcome the governor from his trip abroad, as well as congratulate him over his recent victories at the courts. You can’t dissolve Jigawa councils – Lamido tells APC Nasarawa gov directs LGs to pay  June/July salaries before Friday Nasarawa governor directs local councils to pay June/July salaries before Friday