A heavy downpour accompanied by a strong thunderstorm has wreaked havoc in communities under Dukku and Nafada local government areas of Gombe state, destroying farm lands and rendering hundreds of residents homeless. A visit to the affected areas by North East Trust revealed that about 15 villages were affected by the flooding resulting from the heavy rainfall, which washed away farmlands and destroyed several houses. According to assessment conducted by the Gombe State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), 1, 379 houses were partially or totally destroyed and about 116 farmlands were either submerged or washed away by the floods in Dukku LGA alone. The affected communities are; Dokoro, Burari, Hashidu, Malala, Wuro-Tale and Zaune. Apart from destruction of properties worth millions of naira, the flood has left two people dead. The victims are a woman in Dukku LGA whose building collapsed on her and an assistant of a truck driver after the torrential rain caused their truck to skid off  Gombe-Abba bridge and plunged into the river. In Nafada LGA, the flood affected Nafada town, the headquarters of the LGA, where numerous farmlands were either submerged or washed away by the flood, while several houses were completely destroyed. Also, the Ngalda Bridge, that links Gombe and Yobe States was eroded and almost cut-off, threatening to disconnect people of the two states. Our correspondent reports that, hundreds of families displaced are either squatting with friends and relatives or taking refuge in primary school classes. Some residents of the affected villages, who spoke to North East Trust, said the heavy rain, that started late evening and lasted till early hours of next morning, blew off roofs and razed several houses to the ground. Our correspondent observed that most of the houses in the villages are built of mud, a development that made them to easily collapse whenever there is a heavy downpour. Furthermore, a bridge that linked people of Nafada and Dukku LGAs near Biri village was completely eroded by the flood. The 50-year old bridge also linked people of northern and eastern LGAs of Gombe with all the seven states in North-West part of the country. To ameliorate the sufferings of the victims of the flood disaster, a member representing Dukku/Nafada Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hajiya Aishatu Jibril Dukku has donated relief materials to the victims. The lawmaker made the donation when she paid on-the-spot assessment visit and to commiserate with the affected communities. She said the donation was  to bring succor after the devastating disaster in Dokoro, Wuro-Tale, Zaune, Burari and Malala villages as well as several residential areas in Nafada town. The items donated included foodstuff and other household materials Some of the items donated are; roofing sheets, blankets, clothes for both men and women and bags of rice as well as some amount of money. She appealed to the state governor to quickly come to the aid of the communities and reconstruct the bridge which completely cut off the people. Receiving the lawmaker, the Emir of Dukku, Alhaji Haruna Abdulkadir Rashid II, thanked her and said such visit would go a long way in assuring the people of her commitment to address their plights. He also called on other politicians, philanthropists and well-meaning Nigerians to help the victims of the disaster to ameliorate their sufferings. Also, the Emir of Nafada, Alhaji Muhammadu Dadum Hamza, appealed to the state government to come to the aid of farmers who lost their farmlands and crops. The traditional ruler also appealed to well-meaning individuals to donate towards alleviating the sufferings of the people whom the disaster had wreaked havoc in their communities.  Gombe Lawmaker donates N6m to victims of flood disaster Floods :  Many states at risk Harvest threatened as floods wash away thousands of farmlands OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY