Governor Udom Emmanuel has disclosed that he has not anointed any person to take over from him in 2023. The Governor cleared the air while interacting with the leadership and some members of Mboho Mkparawa Ibibio, foremost socio-cultural organization of the Ibibio youths, that stormed Government House gate to herald his arrival following his victory at the Governorship petitions tribunal. “I usually hear people saying he has anointed someone who will take over from him so that he can be able to manipulate the person to do his bidding after leaving office, I want to assure you that it is not true” “As I Speak, it is only God who knows who my successor will be. When He presents him, we will support him to also succeed. I commend Mboho for the role it has played in maintaining peace in our dear state. The peace of Akwa Ibom State will never be shaken,” Mr. Emmanuel added Mr. Emmanuel whose arrival from Abuja was greeted by different crowds of supporters right from the airport through to the city center, thanked all Akwa Ibomites and the Association for their surprise welcome and support to his administration. He appreciated the Mboho for uniting in support to him, despite all odds, during the election, and urged them to continue to support his administration to achieve the completion agenda. Earlier, the President of Mboho Mkparawa Ibibio, Akpawara Patrick Edwin Udofia said the association came to register their goodwill to the State Chief Executive on his second term confirmation by the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal. Meanwhile, thousands of youths, women groups, members of the political class and the state executive council members thronged the Victor Attah International Airport to celebrate with the governor on the victory at the Election petition Tribunal. Among the dignitaries to receive the governor who arrived the state from an official function in Abuja, were the Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo, the state chairman of PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo, Secretary to state govt, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, Head of service, Elder Effiong Essien among other Exco members. Reacting to the verdict, Governor Emmanuel dedicated the Victory to Only God and Akwa Ibom people for the show love demonstrated at the polls and affirmed by the Judiciary. He said that his administration is committed to deliver on the campaign promise of an economic and socially viable state bonded in love and unity. US Congress honours Gov. Emmanuel 2015: Ibibio elders’ forum okays Udom Emmanuel Battle for A/Ibom Government House thickens as Nsima Ekere launches campaign OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY