The Director-General, Yobe State Bureau on Public Procurement, Samaila Mai Adamu, said his institution had saved over N5 billion from contract vetting within its three years of establishment. The DG disclosed this on Thursday after the state governor, Mai Mala Buni, declared a two-day workshop for public office holders on “procurement tools” opened, at the Government House, Damaturu. He said, to further curtail incidences of over invoicing, the Bureau had put together standard price list and contract vetting rates for the procurement of Goods, works and Services. Adamu explained that the price list was realised by conducting market survey of items before forwarding the documents to all ministries for their inputs. “Very soon harmonization meeting would be convened in order to reach consensus and the document is subject to timely review, which we intend to do through networking and updating the prices and ratings on our websites,” he said. He noted that the Bureau, from inception in 2016 to date, had taken the path of restoring the principles of prudence, transparency and accountability in the management of projects, procurement and service delivery. “The overall objective is to ensure that services delivery is both effective and efficient, that is getting the right outputs and outcomes at the right cost in line with international best practice.” The DG also said, as a revenue generating agency, they had well oiled their collection strategies to tract every Kobo meant as revenue into the government coffers. Adamu said the workshop was organised to acquaint public office holders with broad knowledge of procurement tools to ensure adequate due process in the state. Earlier, the governor, who was presented by his Deputy, Idi Barde Gubana, said he expected the workshop to instill in the participants a proper understanding of procurement process and procedures for goods and services as well as award of contracts and their execution. Jonathan: Contract reviews saved N528bn in 5 yrs Towards prudence in public spending Hope rises for 3,050mw Mambilla hydro project OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY