Weekend Magazine: Is it true that, you have resigned from Kannywood? Naburuska: Yes, it is true. I have tendered my resignation from Kano Kannywood, meaning I will no longer partake in any shooting of a movie in Kano State. I have sent copies of my resignation to all the authorities concerned for them to take note. However, I will continue with my movie making activities in other states and also releasing my movies there till when the present Kano State government’s tenure expires or otherwise depending on the verdict of the ongoing tribunal proceedings. But not in Kano State any more. WM: What is the reason behind your decision? Naburuska: Indeed, Kannywood has done a lot for me and as I have been saying, I have never regretted being an actor with Kannywood.  However, I have to appreciate the efforts of our various associations such as MOPPAN and AREWA which have made several efforts to protect and guide us on the practice our job. The major reason I decided to opt out of Kano Kannywwod is the subjective way and manner the current leadership of film regulatory body has been conducting its activities lately. It is sad that the affairs of Kano State Censorship Board has been politicised in such a way that members of opposition party in the industry are being arrested without any justification. Let me give you an example, a seasoned producer and marketer, Sani Rambo, a reputable singer Sadiq Zazzabi and lately Sunusi Oscar were being intimidated and some of them arrested for allegedly doing their jobs. All these people are members of Kannywood and the People’s Democratic Party. The question to ask here is this, why PDP members? This is a clear issue of vendetta. Does it mean only those in the opposition party break the laws? There are a lot of atrocities committed by members of Kannywood who have in the real sense, violated the provisions of the Censorship Law of 2001. But because they are members of the ruling party they were hailed and appreciated. As a Nigerian, I believe everyone has the right to belong to a certain political party of his or her interest. Therefore, this development of politicising the industry and the way and manner people with contrary affiliation to the ruling party are being relegated to a lower social class without any concern to their right, is what made me take the decision to quit practicing in Kano State. I believe this decision is in the best interest of the survival of the industry. WM: Does that mean you quit because you are scared of being jailed? Naburuska: Not at all. I am ready to face whosoever thinks that I have erred. I am a man, and I have no fear of being tried. Maybe that will serve as a way that God will forgive some of my wrongdoings. Let me remind you that, I have no regret in doing what I did and therefore I fear no human. I have consulted people of repute and they have agreed with my resolve to quit. Moreover, the Censorship Board’s law of 2001 is being erroneously applied, because the laws have concern for only persons or group of persons who have brought forward their movies for censoring and not with individual artistes. WM: The Board claims that it jailed the actor, Sani Danja, during PDP’s regime. Is that true? Naburuska: Let me tell you this, what they were saying was just a cooked-up story. I was the secretary of 2 Effect Empire, that is the name of Sani Musa Danja’s company and Sani has never been arrested or tried. The Censorship Board then was under Malam Beli and Beli never arrested any artiste. They were just making empty excuses to cover their wrongdoings. WM: It would seem like Kannywood artistes are fond of breaking the Board’s laws through their use of vulgar language and indecent dressings among others. Don’t you think these are things that the artistes ought to have prevented so as not to invite the wrath of the Board? Naburuska: When there are issues of indecent dressing or any other thing the Board deems inappropriate, it has the right to call on the producer who presented the film for censoring to rectify the deficiency identified. The Board has no right to invite the artiste who either made the vulgar statement or who dressed indecently or defaulted in any way, to appear before it. But the intrigues here are that, some few practitioners are seen as anointed. No matter what they do, irrespective of the law they violated. On the other hand, some few [others] were selected to be intimidated, irrespective of the law they comply with. WM: The Board claims that it is not responsible for jailing Kannywwod practitioners but the court? Naburuska: This is a baseless claim, because the Board has the mandate to penalise any defaulter without involving the police not to talk of the court. It has no right to take anyone to court. No doubt, we are generating revenue to the state government in huge sums. WM: What would you say to your supporters? Naburuska: They shouldn’t worry, I only quitted acting in Kano, but I will be very much active in other states. My works will also be available on YouTube and other online platforms.  Kannywood could win Oscar - Ali Nuhu Why I have been off screen – Nuhu Abdullahi Why I produced a movie on drug abuse – Baballe Hayatu OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY