From Abdullateef Aliyu, Lagos
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, yesterday, gave 30 per cent score for the 100 days in office of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The party said the state governor’s 100 days’ celebration was a charade because the first 100 days was marked by “failure and hopelessness.” Spokesman of PDP, Taofiq Gani in a statement, said “even by the governor’s own presentations, he can at best score 35 per cent mark. Such celebration of failure ought to have been avoided by any sensitive and honorable government.” The party said the 100 days celebration was only attended by “APC apologists” who did not give a credible assessment of the governor’s performance. The statement said, “This is just as the governor again exposed his unpreparedness for the job when he described the Badagry road as being within the Lagos East senatorial district as well as confusing Kogi for Kebbi in the LAKE rice project. “In struggling to mention achievements, the governor claimed the renovation of primary health centres and construction of 14 classrooms. These are indeed projects funded by NGO & Redeemed Church. The governor who claimed to have installed functional WiFi in Lagos however could not mention those areas but only promised to do so.” Contacted, the acting spokesman of APC, Hon. Abiodun Salami, described the PDP as “attention seekers”, saying the governor has done so well in 100 days especially in the areas of road construction, waste management, the education sector, among others. Salami said it was evident all the good works the governor has done, claiming that over 150 roads have been fixed in the last 100 days, adding that has eased traffic in the nooks and crannies of the state. According to him, the fact that the PDP scored Sanwo-Olu 35 per cent showed that “the man is working.” PDP gives Sanwo-Olu seven days to declare assets publicly Lagos to deliver 3m votes for APC – Tinubu Gov’ship: Poll tips Ganduje, Wike, Tambuwal to win OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY