The coalition of  14 South East Civil Society Activists and Human Rights Defenders has picked holes in the position of Ebonyi State governor, and Chairman, South-East Governors Forum, David Umahi, who described as “a distraction” the clamour now for Igbo presidency come 2023. Umahi had in an interview stated that the clamour was not only a distraction but also a disregard to the present occupant of the presidency. He said 2023 is still far away, therefore those agitating for it should allow the current occupant of the office to complete his tenure. However, at a press conference with the convener of Civil Liberties Organization, one of the 14 civil society groups that formed the coalition, Comrade Ibuchukwu Ezike, said it was sad that Governor Umahi was not well-informed about 2023 politics of the country, adding that the CSOs could not act on his comment. Ezike said: “We cannot act on his comment. The demand for Igbo presidency in 2023 is a normal and just demand. “I think the governor of Ebonyi State is uninformed as far as the talk about the 2023 presidency is concerned. “Don’t forget that no sooner than the presidential election was conducted and won in March 2019 than a group in the North started to campaign for the presidency to remain in the region after President Buhari’s eight years in office.”  “Yet there are other groups that are saying that the presidency should go to the Southwest in 2023. The groups are trying to mobilize support for the presidency to go to  the Southwest after it stayed there eight years during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s two-terms from 1999 to 2007. “So if  a governor in Igboland is saying that the talk about 2023 is a distraction to the person currently occupying the presidency, it may mean that he does not follow the trends of events in the nation’s politics and we cannot act on that,” Ezike said. 2023 presidency: Umahi dissociates self from campaign team inauguration Resolving the Igbo Question Why we met Buhari, by South East governors OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY