National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole says the party’s governorship aspirants in Kogi State should work with the party’s candidate, Governor Yahaya Bello, to win the November 16 election in the state. Oshiomhole stated this, yesterday, at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja after a meeting with the gubernatorial aspirants. The APC boss, who said the party invited the aspirants for a post primary meeting, noted that the discussions had enabled the party to know the huge debts of salary arrears and projects the Governor Bello led-government inherited from his predecessor. He said since the Kogi governor and APC governorship candidate had governed the state for four years, he didn’t need fresh apprenticeship. “My brothers and sisters from Kogi who participated in the process have shared with us their feelings about the process and outcome. “But I think the good thing is that I thank each and anyone of them in spite of whatever they have to say, recognising the fact that they have to work together to win the next governorship election in Kogi. “The governor will build on experience gained and on where we have done welI. He will also improve on where we probably have not, so that overall after eight years, we will be able to look back, and point out the change between when he came in and when he left,” he said. Bello, who hailed the APC National Working Committee (NWC) for inviting all its Kogi governorship aspirants to resolve their differences to ensure the party’s victory in the upcoming governorship election, promised to carry them along in his campaign and governance to better the lives of people of the state. The governor, who reacted to the disruption of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary election, said his administration should not be held responsible for the disruption. “I’m not a member of PDP. We gave a level-playing field to PDP and other political parties to carry out their activities freely within the state. “In fact, let me tell you, my colleague, the governor of Adamawa State, His Excellency Adamu Ahmadu Fintiri, who was the chairman of their primaries committee, before he came to Kogi State, he contacted me that he was coming to conduct the election, I provided his accommodation, his feeding and some other logistics within the state to ensure that they had hitch-free election exercise. “They moved round the nooks and crannies; all the aspirants in other political parties moved round the nooks and crannies of Kogi State. “I conducted the security people round the stadium and my security chiefs in Kogi were very excellent and up and doing as far as Kogi is concerned,” Bello said. How Bello emerged Kogi APC governorship candidate Youth group seeks Oshiomhole's intervention over alleged imposition of Senator Adeyemi What indirect primary means for Kogi APC OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY