The Oluyole Cheshire Home, Ibadan, Oyo State, has debunked the report  of incessant invasion of the Home by hoodlums and the defilement of its pupils. The Chairman, management committee of the Home and former Director, Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan, Professor Dele Layiwola, who spoke with journalists on the matter, said the story of rape and burglary at Cheshire Home was false. According to him, “There was no truth whatsoever in it. The person who granted the interview was not qualified to grant any interview. There is no position as deputy director of the home. Unfortunately, the journalist who went there didn’t cross-check the fact before he distributed the story among his colleagues. “It was a great embarrassment when we heard the news on radio and  read it in newspapers. The police at the Sango divisional station were  also concerned about it because what they had in their records did not reflect what the newspapers wrote. “The DSS also went there to know what was really happening. It is a pity that such a hoax could turn out to be news,” Layiwola said. Asked if the person who made the claim was not an employee of the Home, he said, “Yes, there were minor issues but they did not amount to the gargantuan report that such incidents had happened four times within a couple of months. “He will be sanctioned. He is an ex-resident of the Home and has no locus standi to grant press interviews,” Layiwola added. Kayode Lawal, who claimed to be an Assistant Coordinator for the Home, had last weekend told visiting officials of the Nigerian Shippers Council, South-West zone, to donate items for its pupils, and alleged that there had been attacks on it in recent times. According to Lawal, “In the space of the past five months, thieves  had broken into the Home and assaulted residents on four occasions.” http://www.sunday.dailytrust.com/administrator/index.php?option=com_content§ionid=21 ‘I became a journalist by accident’ Soldiers nearly killed me during Dimka coup -Albashir OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY