Only Five out of over 30 scheduled and non-scheduled carriers are consistent in the remittance of five per cent Ticket Sales Charges/Cargo Sales Charges (TSC/CSC), the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has revealed. The agency warned the defaulting airlines to remit their TSC/CSC within 90 days or face sanction. It commended the five airlines including Air Peace Airline, Overland Airways, Medview Airline, Aero Contractors and Allied Air Limited for their consistency. Daily Trust reports that the five per cent TSC/CSC is in compliance with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Act, 2006 (As amended). The money is shared among aviation agencies including NCAA, the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET), the Accident Investigation Bureau and the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT). The NCAA and the airlines under the Airline Operator of Nigeria (AON) have in the past had recurring battles over the remittance of TSC/CSC. The authority however introduced the automated payment system where the deduction is made at source. The five airlines that have been consistent were recognized during a meeting held with the authority, spokesman of NCAA, Sam Adurogboye said in a statement. Other key considerations for recognition by the Authority are timely remittance of Cargo Sales Charges (CSC); beneficial working relationship, especially the Aviation Revenue Automation Project (ARAP) / Direct Debit Mandate; and contribution to effective, efficient, safe and secure operations. The NCAA has however given other airlines that are yet to comply with the automation 90 days to join the platform. While appreciating the operators for their efforts despite what he called daunting challenges in the business environment, the DG of NCAA, Capt. Muhtar Usman, expressed optimism that the operators will continue to honour their financial obligations and carry out seamless airline operations. At the meeting attended by about 33 scheduled and non-scheduled commercial airlines, the chief executives of the airlines expressed hope that the Regulatory Authority will intervene in the aforementioned areas of concern. Capt. Usman acceded to the request of the airlines for an extension of 90 days to enable operators not yet in compliance with the Aviation Revenue Automation Project (ARAP)/Direct Debit mandate to key into it.  NCAA suspends automation of payment systems by airlines Workers protest over salary, airlines'' indebtedness TSC/CSC: Lufthansa, 29 foreign carriers face sanction over automation OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY