Nigeria recalled its envoy to South Africa and also pulled out of the World Economic Summit which commenced in Cape Town yesterday over the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other foreigners. This is just as Shoprite and MTN outlets as well as other South African businesses closed shop in Nigeria after they were targeted by protesters across the country including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. A presidential source told Daily Trust that the decision to recall of the Nigerian High Commissioner, to South Africa, Ambassador Kabiru Bala, was taken during an emergency meeting yesterday in villa. It was presided by President Muhammadu, with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Foreign Affairs Minister Geoffrey Onyeama in attendance. President Buhari had earlier dispatched a special envoy to President Cyril Ramaphosa to register his displeasure over xenophobic attacks. Onyeama, who confirmed the recall of the Nigerian High Commissioner, added that President Buhari will address the nation on the return of the special envoy. The minister told State House correspondents that the High Commissioner will return alongside the Special Envoy, at the end of his assignment. “The envoy will be back by the end of this week. Ideally, Mr. President will decide how he will communicate to the nation whether through live address or a written statement. But we feel that it will be better for him to do once he has all the elements.  “We feel it will be better, let the special envoy come back and when we have everything that we need he will then address the nation on that,” he said. The minister said information available to federal government indicated that not a single Nigerian had been killed in the latest xenophobic attacks, but that properties of Nigerians have been vandalized. He said the federal government was demanding for compensation for the vandalized property. Avoid volatile areas in S/Africa, FG tells Nigerians Also, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged Nigerians to avoid travelling to high risk and volatile areas in South Africa until the situation is brought under control. The government’s travel advisory was contained in a statement by the ministry’s spokesperson, Ferdinand Nwonye. “The Federal Government of Nigeria totally condemns the renewed attacks on foreign nationals and their businesses in South Africa which has led to the loss of lives and properties worth millions of naira. “The Government of Nigeria is engaging the relevant South African authorities via the Nigerian High Commission in Pretoria, Consulate General in Johannesburg and Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Abuja to ensure that definite measures are put in place to curtail the unfortunate attacks,” the statement reads. “However, due to the tension created by the attacks, the Government of Nigeria wishes to advise Nigerians to avoid travelling to high risk and volatile areas until the situation is brought under control,” it added. IGP orders security at embassies, foreign missions The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu has ordered water-tight security around embassies, foreign missions, foreigners and their businesses within the country. Police spokesman Frank Mba said in a statement yesterday that “To this end, all Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police across the Federation have been placed on red alert to ensure no similar violence is replicated within the country.” Mba said the IGP condemned the violent attacks and notes that three police officers were seriously injured and a Police operational vehicle set ablaze. He also said a total number of 125 suspects have been arrested while a good number of looted valuables have been recovered by the police. He said while citizens can air their views on salient national issues as enshrined in our statutes, the Force reiterates that these must be done within the confines of the law. Recalling envoys, normal in diplomacy – Experts Diplomatic experts yesterday said the decision of the Nigerian government to recall its envoy to South Africa was a normal practice in diplomacy. Governments all over the world recall their ambassadors or high commissioners to protest, and to get briefings on, issues affecting their interests in another country, they said. Ambassador Gani Lawal, the president, Association of Foreign Relations Professionals of Nigeria (AFRPN), said the recall is for the federal government to get detailed briefings on the attacks. “After getting briefings from its envoy, the next thing for the government to do is to engage with the South African government using our intelligence agencies to track down drug kingpins, whose nefarious activities are impinging on the integrity of the innocent, law-abiding Nigerians in that country”, Lawal said. A retired diplomat, Ambassador Sani Saulawa Bala, agreed with the government’s decision to recall its envoy as well as to pull out of the World Economic Forum saying it is a right thing to do because Nigeria cannot allow attacks on our nationals in South Africa to continue unabated. Shoprite condemns anti-foreigner violence Shoprite Nigeria has also condemned in strong terms “any kind of xenophobic violence and intimidation against the citizens of other countries, anywhere in the world.” In a statement by the leading African retailer yesterday in Lagos, it said it’s highly concerned at the acts of violence against foreign nationals that sporadically flared up in South Africa and the resultant rhetoric of intolerance that is now being levelled against South Africans living in Nigeria. “As a reputable company with deep African roots who employs thousands of African nationals and most importantly works tirelessly to bring low prices to fourteen (14) countries outside of South Africa; we no doubt have excelled due to our peaceful co-existence and collaborations, hence we would like to see an end to xenophobia across the continent,” the statement read. NLC, NANS, others react to attacks The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) said the South African government should be held responsible as it failed to protect the lives and properties of foreign nationals, especially Nigerians who have been subject of the xenophobic attacks over time. The NLC president, comrade Ayuba Wabba said that the frequency and escalation of these attacks are reprehensible adding that: “It is capable of undermining the illustrious bilateral relations between the government and people of Nigeria and government and people of South Africa.” The union, however, cautioned Nigerians at home against crude retaliatory measures such as burning down of perceived South African businesses noting that some of those businesses are owned by Nigerians. In Kaduna a coalition of civil society groups told the government of Nigerian and other African governments to suspend all kinds of relationships with the government of South Africa, until a convincing assurance is given that such dastardly act would not repeat itself. Addressing the press after a protest, the convener, Yusuf Amoke, said enough is enough on the xenophobic killings in South Africa. Also, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) talked tough yesterday. The National Spokesman of NANS, Comrade Azeez Adeyemi, at a press conference in Abeokuta, Ogun State alongside student leaders in the state, said the anger of Nigerians especially students have gotten to a point of real reaction. FCT, NOA urge caution The National Orientation Agency (NOA) also appealed to Nigerians to remain peaceful and law abiding in the face of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and their businesses in South Africa. Director General of NOA, Dr. Garba Abari, who made the appeal in a statement in Abuja, urged Nigerians to have faith in government’s ability to defend its citizens and their interests, both at home and abroad. FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, urged residents of the territory, especially students and youths, not to carry out retaliatory attacks on South African nationals and business interests in the FCT. He said that the Federal Government was already exploiting diplomatic channels to address this issue and appealed that residents should allow those efforts to succeed. The Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution (IPCR) also cautioned against using languages capable of escalating the crisis in South Africa where Nigerians and other foreign nationals have been subjected to xenophobic attacks. The Director General of the institute, Prof. Bakut T. Bakut, urged the South African government to restrain its citizens and asked them to put a stop to the orgy of violence. In a statement issued yesterday by the institute’s head of media, Musa Mato, Bakut, he also called on Nigerians to remain calm and not to retaliate or take the law into their hands as Federal Government is taking steps to address the situation. ‘Attacks, recall of envoy won’t affect Nigeria- S/Africa relations’ A South African former Nigerian resident has expressed confidence that relations between both countries would not be affected by the xenophobic attacks and Nigeria’s recall of its high commissioner. Kabiru Sizwe, in a telephone chat with Daily Trust on Wednesday, said the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to recall Nigeria’s High Commissioner to South Africa, Ambassador Kabiru Bala over the attacks, was only a symbolic gesture to register the country’s sadness of the incidents. Sizwe, whose father worked lectured in Nigerian universities and himself attended the University of Nigeria, Nsukka but now resident in Johannesburg, South Africa, also said the attacks, which have seen some African countries, including Nigeria announce withdrawals from the World Economic Forum for Africa (WEFA) summit in Cape Town, would not affect the greater dream of a united Africa. “At the end of the day, those things are more political and dramatic, but the issue of Pan-Africanism would not be affected. I don’t see it affecting the sovereign level of presidents and countries,” he said. “Yes, these are sporadic things, it happens all the time, remember the Ghana-must-go in Nigeria, and the noise about people from Congo. Africa is a complex continent. But I don’t think taking few incidences particularly at the level which they occur into continental issues. I don’t think the pulling out of a number of countries from the World Economic Forum in Cape Town actually makes a big dent on the fact that all our leaders, particularly South Africa, like to see a more unified Africa.” He itemised the rising unemployment, gap between the rich and poor among South Africa’s 50 million people and the perception of few Nigerians as being involved in drug-related crimes as some of the factors for the violence. He however added that the situation has been taken advantage of by criminal elements in the country. Xenophobic attacks: Buhari sends envoy to South Africa Attack on South African businesses in Nigeria will hurt Nigerians more - FG More reactions trail attacks on Nigerians in South Africa OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY