The Senator representing the FCT, Senator Philip Aduda has condoled with the family of the first FCT Senator, Chief Daniel Yakwo, who died last Tuesday at the age of 74 after a brief illness. Aduda, who was received by members of the deceased family, led by Ambassador Esther Audu, at their hilltop residence in Abaji on Saturday, expressed shock and sadness over the death of the late senator. He described the late senator as a mentor, adviser, role model and a father to everyone in the territory, saying the deceased left an indelible footprint in the sands of the FCT political history and evolution as well as Nigeria at large. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Aduda, who said the deceased would be greatly missed, prayed for God to grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss while he prayed for his soul to rest in peace. “On behalf of the good people of FCT, I pray God to grant his soul external rest, and his family the fortitude to bear the loss,”he said. Similarly, the Ona of Abaji, who is the  chairman of the FCT council of traditional rulers, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, also condoled with the family of the late senator. Alhaji Adamu, who led some members of his traditional council on a condolence visit yesterday, said the palace received the news of the death with shock. He said his palace would miss the deceased, being a traditional title holder of Makaman Abaji, adding that the deceased contributed a lot to not only the palace, but the entire FCT. He recalled how the deceased waded into the boundary dispute between Abaji and Kogi State when he was alive. “In fact, I can recall when the boundary dispute came up between us and Kotonkarfe in Kogi State, the late senator waded in and went to archives in Abuja to bring the villages that were under Abaji and Kogi State, “ he said. The traditional ruler added that the deceased also played a great role during the rampant cases of kidnapping in the area, while urging the family to  remain united and uphold the legacies the late senator left behind. He prayed God almighty to give the deceased’s family the fortitude to bear the loss.  Aduda condoles with family of late Abaji v/chair Sarkin Bwari dies at 81 Bauchi gov, wife mourn Senator Wakili’s death