The National Agency for the Prohibition of Traffic in Persons, (NAPTIP), has said that traffickers now use social media marriages, football academy and modelling opportunities to recruit youths and women to be trafficked. NAPTIP Director General, Julie Okah-Donli, stated this yesterday at Iruepken, Esan West Local Government of Edo State during a sensitization campaign for secondary school students on new trends in human trafficking. “Traffickers now use social media marriages and modeling to recruit girls and football academy abroad to recruit boys  for human trafficking. Some of the victims are subjected to organ harvesting. They will remove the victims’ liver and kidney, which they sell at black market,” she said. On the social media marriages, she said, “Traffickers will hook up with innocent girls on the internet and promise to marry them. The traffickers’ family will make the necessary marriage arrangements and pay the bride price of the girl without the girl seeing the groom in person. And on getting there, the lady will be subjected to prostitution as she would be made to service men brought by her husband,” she said. Okah-Donli further said traffickers also deceive boys by posing as representatives of football academies abroad that they could play for, adding that they will only discover that they have been trafficked once they get to their destination. “It is very important for everyone to know what trafficking is, the indicators and how to protect self from being trafficked by either friends, family members or even enemies. We hope that after this sensitization you will be able to tell others about the dangers in it,” she said. She noted that the girl after being promised good job in shops and salon will be camped in brothels and forced into prostitution where they will be afflicted with diseases, unwanted pregnancy, depression and death. While advising students to report to NAPTIP whenever they are approached for traffickers, she also urged them to always tell their parents whenever they are going out as traffickers always tell their victims not to inform anybody of their movements. NAPTIP warns youths against social media marriages NAPTIP to introduce trafficking in school curriculum Oyo overtakes Edo, tops in girls trafficking in Nigeria - Immigration OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY