Already overburdened with too many agencies and centres with one of the lowest budgetary allocations, the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology is proposing to establish a new agency that will focus on robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI). The Minister of Science and Technology Dr Ogbonnaya Onu said on Monday  that the ministry was proposing to establish the new agency  to help  improve the quality of research on robotics and AI in the nation’s universities and industrial laboratories. He disclosed this when he received a delegation of the Academy of Science in his office in Abuja. The President of the Academy, Prof. Mosto Onuoh had earlier urged the Ministry to support the Academy in research on Big Data and Artificial Intelligence, which are current technological trends in the world. Also in his contribution, Dr. Kehinde Oladipo, a fellow of the Institute, said Big Data and Artificial Intelligence are the technology in vogue which needed to be embraced by all and sundry so as to remain relevant in the current technological revolution sweeping the world. Dr. Oladipo further said that Big Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence are the new engine of growth in the present world. But Daily Trust reports that the 17 agencies, which are mostly research-based, are not adequately funded compared with their counterparts in countries like China, India and the United Arab Emirates. The 17 agencies include the National Board for Technology Incubation (NBTI), Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), the Nigerian Institute of Science Laboratory Technology (NISLT), Nigerian Institute For Trypanosomiasis And Onchocerciasis (NITR), National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) and National Centre For Technology Management (NACETEM) Others are the National Office For Technology Acquisition And Promotion (NOTAP), Nigerian Natural Medicine Development Agency (NNMDA), National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA), Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Nigerian Building and Road Research Institute (NBBRI), National Institute of Leather Science and Technology (NILEST), National Research Institute for Chemical Technology (NARICT), Sheda Science and Technology Complex (SHESTCO), Project Development Institute (PRODA), Federal Institute of Food & Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) and National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI). SHESTCO or NASENI can actually cater for robotics and AI as their mandates include research into, and localising new technology in the country. But an IT expert, Professor Foluso Ladeinde said establishing new agency for robotics and AI is absolutely necessary. He said a separate agency is necessary so that it can focus solely on the two new branches of science and tech. However, Prof Ladeinde  said electricity and Nigeria’s perennial problem of poor management might work against the initiative. FG to establish new technology agency – Minister FG to establish agency for artificial intelligence, robotics – Onu FG to establish new technology agency - Minister OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY