The Ogun State police command has confirmed the arrest of a 27-year-old man, Ebuka Everest, who allegedly robbed and inflicted injuries on his former employer, Mrs Theresa Nnamdi. The police alleged that Everest, who had been sacked from a fish farm, invaded Mrs Nnamdi’s house at Association Estate, Mowe, where he stabbed her in the right hand, tied her legs and covered her mouth with a cloth. The suspect was also alleged to have forced his former employer to transfer N40,000 to his account, and also went away with some valuables after ransacking the house. A statement by the command’s police spokesperson, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said Everest was arrested on Saturday following a distress call received by policemen at Mowe that armed robbers held Mrs Nnamdi and other occupants of the house hostage. “On receiving the distress call, the Divisional Police Officer, Mowe division, Superintendent Marvis Jayeola, mobilized his anti-robbery team and arrested Ebuka Everest, who had stabbed the woman in her right hand before tying her legs with a rope and covering her mouth with a cloth that he tore from her bed sheet,” he said. According to Oyeyemi, Everest said during interrogation that Mrs Nnamdi had sacked him when he stole some items on the farm. “The suspect claimed to have worked with the victim for four months and was living with the family throughout that period. He stated further that his problem started when he was duped of his four months’ salary by an online scammer who promised to help him travel abroad but ended up collecting his four months’ salary and blocked him online. “In order to have some money with him, he went to the farm and stole some items but was caught by the manager, who reported him to their boss, and he got sacked immediately. It was that annoyance that made the suspect to attack the farm manager before coming for the madam (former boss),” he added. Items reportedly recovered from Everest were a knife, a broken bottle, the rope he allegedly used to tie the victim legs, phones and a laptop. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY