The Ekiti State Police Command yesterday paraded a 24-year-old man, Ebenezer Olorunleke, who allegedly conspired with three other persons to kill his own brother. The State Police Commissioner, Mr Asuquo Amba, said Olorunleke, an indigene of Kogi State, and his co-conspirators killed his brother with a knife and a long screw driver on August 29, 2019, and fled after the crime. According to Amba, the suspect and three others invaded his brother’s home at the Abekoko area of Oke-Ila, stabbed him to death and stole his red Bajaj motorcycle registration number ADK 100 UJ. Items said to have been recovered from Olorunleke included a long screw driver, a knife and the Bajaj motorcycle. “They hit him in the stomach and pierced his intestines when his wife and children were not at home. He had confessed to have committed the offence,” the police Commissioner said. Olorunleke said all that his friends, whom he admitted killed his brother, wanted to do was just to help him (Olorunleke) collect money from the brother, saying the deceased was a stingy individual. He said, “I did not follow them into the room. But upon realising that my brother had been stabbed and was shouting, I rushed in and wanted to rescue him, but he bit me and chopped off my finger. “My friends later came to my house to attack me.  They wanted to sell the motorcycle but I resisted that. I was thinking of coming to the police to report the matter when I was arrested with it.” The Command also paraded one 20-year-old Tajudeen Ayodele was alleged to have conspired with five other members of his armed robbery gang to attack one Bello Ayodele Habeeb and also raid some hostels at Iworoko-Ekiti on August 25, 2019, all dressed in military camouflage. Amba also paraded  Odebiyi Lanrewaju, 34; Owolabi Adewale, 31; Moses Blessing, 23; Gbenga Olowoyo, 26; Obisesan Afolabi, 21; and Abdul Monsuru, 34, for alleged burglary, stealing, robbery and illegal possession of firearms and Indian hemp. “Those apprehended are genuine suspects and will be tried in court. We are sure of conviction,” the Commissioner said. He added that the Command’s wide network of communication with sister agencies and local hunters had helped it in extending its tentacles and fortifying its intelligence- gathering mechanism.  Kidnapped Fayemi’s ex-commissioner, other regain freedom 2 men kill neighbour, kept corpse in sack Suspected gunmen stab man to death in Abuja village OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY