We started this series last week and I listed 5 points that Nigeria needed to look at in order to try and extricate the country from this needless liability. I must quickly add that P&ID as a name also rhymes with PAID. The company was set up to get PAID. They usually get PAID. Nothing tells that it is a scam more than that. All the little scams that some young Nigerians embarrass us with everywhere is not up to the massive scams that is wrought on Nigeria by those we call ‘foreign investors’ from time to time. Since last week, some new revelations has come into play, including how a former Chief Justice of the Federal, Alfa Belgore – a man who got retirement benefits to the tune of N2.8Billion (can you imagine that – and when did we start paying these kinds of amounts to singular retirees anyway and is that justified! – was indicted as the person who provided some ‘fool-proof’ argument to P&ID in order that they should get PAID $9.6Billion from this poor, long-suffering country. The man got paid $50,000 by P&ID for his efforts. As I made to send in this article, I saw in the news that another lawyer, the former Director of Legal at Ministry of Petroleum, a woman for that matter – Mrs Grace Taiga – has been remanded in prison for the role she played in the whole saga. That is the civil servant that ensured no one saw this transaction until it became crystallized. We hear that lawyers in the civil service are used to playing a scam on Nigeria whereby they deliberately do shoddy jobs on contracts, so that the other party can sue Nigeria and they will then share the payout. Could that be what happened in this instance? That said, please let us conclude the article by looking at the remaining recommendations. This all looks like a major scam. I keep saying Nigerians are not good scammers. We are only lousy with our scams. Let a Nigerian boy find $10,000 and he is busy spraying money at parties and dancing on Benjamin Franklin’s image, much to the chagrin of the owners of modern finance. Bloomberg tells us that there is a whole industry behind these types of legal deals that keep countries permanently skidding and indebted. If these guys succeed in getting $9bn out of our reserves, this country will go into a Zimbabwe-type economic tailspin, as portfolio investor and local collaborators will come trooping in to take their own investments; which carry Nigeria’s sovereign guarantees. The only thing left to consider here is the role of leaders, especially when governments change hands. Who is to blame in this transaction? First, we will have to see the document to know who was bold enough to try sign Nigeria away. Then we will see, which president or FEC signed off and establish if it is a fraud or not. We know that Jonathan was excluded from the Yar’Adua government due to trust reasons. We know that there was no ‘cabal’ per se, beyond what El-Rufai claimed he and his friends invented from exile to discredit Yar’Adua. The mystery is, was Jonathan government informed of this deal on time by these top civil servants whom Buhari say are the ones who do all the work because ministers are noisemakers? Whatever the case, why did Jonathan sit on the deal for 5 years without busting it all open as it has right now?  I do not blame Buhari for refusing to pay $850 million upon coming to office. No one will rush to make such a payment. But he also messed up big time for not appointing ministers for 6 months while obligations festooned. For going to sleep for months, Buhari landed us in trouble. It is great now that the entire transaction is in the open and every Dike, Tope and Haruna can contribute their perspectives from every angle, after all we would be joint sufferers if the obligation should crystalize. We have to thank some global news agencies for helping with the backend investigations and showing us how these things work. I understand though, that there are dozens of this type of litigation against Nigeria. These potential contingent liabilities must be well catalogued, examined, verified, criticized, monitored and controlled. We also should by now have made up our minds that some of our worst enemies as a nation are those we have been putting forward to go and act on our behalf. Segun Adeniyi, President Yar’Adua’s spokesman, did hint in his article on the same matter, that Supo Sasore (SAN) was pulled out of this very P&ID case for reasons that are less than noble. Half word, they say, is enough for the wise. I think these issues are worthy of investigation.  Nigeria we hail thee. The $9bn p&id scam – Between TY Danjuma and our government lawyers (I) The British Origins of Nigerian 419 Scams Bait-and-switch publishing: New face of academic fraud OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY