President Muhammadu Buhari and four other leaders, known as the G5 Sahel heads of state, at a summit on Friday in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, gave strong support to Desert to Power, an Africa Development Bank (AfDB)-led initiative. A statement by AfDB said the summit, tagged ‘Harnessing Solar Energy for the Socio-Economic Development of the G5 Sahel countries’, came on the heels of a high-level technical meeting attended by the region’s energy ministers, and development partners including the World Bank, and regional institutions like West African Economic and Monetary Union, and ECOWAS. The goal of Desert to Power is to propel the sahelian economies to higher growth and prosperity. Adesina outlined the initiative’s ambitions of providing 10,000MW of solar-generated electricity to 250 million people across the Sahel. The G5 Sahel President, Christian Kabore of Burkina Faso, urged the private sector to support the initiative. “Access to electricity is key for the economic development, prosperity and security of the G5 Sahel countries,” Kabore said at a joint press conference hosted with AfDB President, Akinwumi Adesina, after the summit. Adesina, who sought the presidents’ support, said “generations of people in the Sahel have waited for light for too long. Generations today and in the future can wait no longer! The time for action is now. The time for Desert to Power to provide electricity for all in the Sahel is now.” A joint task force and a coordination unit, to be hosted by the bank, will be set up to improve legal and institutional frameworks, to ensure that priority in energy provision is given to rural communities. Donor and development partners were asked to help mobilise $140 million for the initial project preparation phase. Desert to Power has already galvanized huge political support at the global level during the recent G7 Summit in Biarritz, France, AfDB noted. Five priority areas for the G5 Sahel include expanded utility-scale solar generation capacity; extending and strengthening power transmission networks; accelerating electrification through decentralized energy solutions; revitalizing national power utilities; and improving business climates for increased private sector investments. The initiative covers 11 countries: Burkina Faso, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Sudan, Djibouti, Senegal and Chad and is in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and the Renewable Energy Initiative for Africa. Great Green Wall unit upgraded to agency Great Green Wall helping African countries to mitigate climate change France will no longer dictate to Africans - Macron OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY