Service providers in the aviation sector are making it difficult for airlines in Africa to flourish due to “prohibitive and excessive charges”, a former secretary general of African Airlines Association (AFRAA), Aaron Munetsi has said. He spoke while delivering a keynote address at the Aviation Day at the 16th Akwaaba African Travel Market, saying it was wrong to say African airlines are not profitable. Munetsi noted for instance that 38 dollars out of a ticket of $100 goes to airport authority alone, adding that by the time airlines pay other charges to other service providers, they are left with 0.2 per cent profit. He also said the Single African Airport Transport Market (SAATM) has come to stay and no African country should be left behind. The aviation expert regretted that only 31 out of 54 African countries have signed the SAATM, which he described as the bedrock of the African free continental trade agreement (AfCTA). Quoting the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Munetsi said African airlines lost $140bn to excessive charges by service providers. “Airport authority charges are so much yet infrastructure is crumbling,” he observed. He said there was also the need to harmonize airport charges in Africa, saying, “airports have different charges for the same aircraft, for the same crew. Airlines are losing money because they can’t operate to some airports. It is like a dog fight. Everybody who can charge an airline will charge them.” He noted that airlines are a catalyst to facilitating tourism, saying Africa cannot develop the tourism market without removing the barriers to free movement. He disclosed that recent research indicated that one in every 10 jobs in Africa is tourism related. “If we don’t facilitate tourism growth, it means we are starving jobs. If airports are killing airlines, they are killing our youths,” he said. He said Africa with 62 airlines, 817 aircraft and 49 airports airlifted 88m passengers in 2018, adding the figure is shameful if compared to the figures from Europe as France in 2018 alone 89.4m passengers. “Despite the number of airports, how can we have 88m passengers? It means something is wrong somewhere. SAATM is set to change this,” Munetsi said. Speaking further, the speaker urged African countries to explore another way of making money other than charging fellow Africans with visa fees.  IATA chief decries high cost of air fares, pushes for SAATM Nigeria joins 22 countries to implement African Air pact National carrier project remains FG’s top priority—Sirika OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY