The Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila on Monday led members of House of Representatives to Katsina state on sympathy visit over the incessant banditry and kidnapping that has engulfed the state pledging to assist the state overcome the challenges. Speaking when he paid a courtesy visit on the state governor, Gbajabiamila said they were in the state to find out the true position of things with a view to knowing what assistance that is needed from the national level. “Nigeria is one country, states cannot deal with issues like this on their own; issues like this are complicated and complex and we believed that federal level who has the security must have something we can do to assist the state,” he said. “We have been to Zamfara, Borno and now Katsina, the story seems to be the same but with little difference here and there. The issue of kidnappers is a major problem. We are here to see and compliment what you are doing to find a lasting solution to this bagging problem,” he added. In his remarks, the state governor, Aminu Masari, appreciated the concern shown by the lawmakers which he said he holds in high esteem. He said the administration is presently trying to normalise the situation for better intervention that will follow up saying that the national assembly should expect demands from the state members as the 2020 budget is coming up so that issues of infrastructures as demanded by the people can be tackled. During the working visit, the Speaker also visited some Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) taking refuge at Gidan Baki in the metropolis as a result of attacks on their communities. He also took time to teach at Government Day Secondary School, Kofar Sauri were he extolled teachers for their selfless service to humanity. 9th House of Reps speaker and the move against insecurity Free Katsina State of bandits Katsina: Rep seeks FG’s intervention against bandits, kidnappers OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY