Study has found that workers   who  fail to plan for   retirement     create unnecessary threat to their old age. This was part of the findings of a recent study conducted by two researchers, Ogunyemi Segilola Yewande and Oderinde Olajide Damilola, on ‘Problems of Retirement Planning in Nigeria’. “In spite of government’s efforts to ensure social sanctuary income for retired civil servants, retirement has  been and  is still a frustrating and disturbing experience in  Nigeria,” the report stated. It found that many people  are unprepared and that there are irregularities in the payment   of   pension   and  benefits   in   the country. The study, which focused  on   major  issues   in retirement in Nigeria and the importance of planning for retirement, emphasised that life consisted of entry and exit and that one must plan for  exit immediately after getting their appointment. “Retirement from active civil service is inevitable in the life of every public  officer. Many workers look forward to retirement but do not prepare for it as a stage that every worker must surely reach whether he prepares for it or not,” the report stated. The report found that many who secure entrance into organisations were not conscious of their exit which is certain at a future date. The report recommended that a happy and fulfilling post-retirement life demands that certain capital or revenue-generating manufacturing/service  outfits be  put   in   place  by   individual  workers before the retirement day. The paper called on government to implement more retirement strategies while workers in both public and private sectors should try to engage in retirement planning in order to have a useful and satisfying life after retirement. It noted that waiting on government to ensure proper, effective and efficient retirement strategies has failed in the past as having a great retirement in Nigeria not only depends on the government but on ardent preparation by those involved so that at the end of the day, they would not become a burden to themselves and the society at large. “More emphasis should be placed on changing attitude to retirement. Nigerian workers both in the private and public sectors should see retirement not as an end of one’s world, rather the beginning of a new phase of life. Therefore there should be early planning and workers  retiring on ground of age  should be celebrated and treated as war  veterans by the society and government,” the report recommended. A case was made for the federal   government   and   private investors to create an agency for retirement in each state so as to tackle difficulties retirees experience. Workers in Nigeria dread retirement, study finds Why workers should aim to retire early – Retiree, experts Abuja gets school of pension, first in West Africa OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY