The minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, and the minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, have been tasked to deliver a roadmap that would change the face of transportation in Nigeria. Transport Correspondents Association of Nigeria (TCAN) which made the call also tasked the federal government to construct more rail lines across the country. The association also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for appointing Amaechi and Saraki to man the all-important ministry. The chairman of TCAN, Mrs Augusta Uchedinunuor, expressed confidence that many pending projects would be completed with the duo in the ministry. She stressed that the assemblage of a star-studded team led by Amaechi and Saraki reflects the unflinching commitment of the present administration to take the nation’s transportation sector to the next level. She said: “We believe Saraki will also bring her experiences and competence to bear in supporting Amaechi who has, from the outset when he joined the Buhari’s government in 2015, showed a great zeal and passion for the transportation sector. “With Amaechi and Saraki in the saddle, our nation’s transportation sector can only get better. We urge the duo to draw up a roadmap to deliver the country a transportation sector that every Nigerian will be proud of. The group said the completion of the Lagos – Ibadan projects would boost economic growth and to a large extent reduce traffic gridlock that has remained a regular feature of Apapa and Tin can Island ports. It commended the decision to establish a manufacturing factory for coaches at Kajola, Ifo area of Ogun state as well as establishment of University of Transportation in Daura, Kastina state. Amaechi declares free transport service for ministry staff FG to introduce solar-powered tricycles in 2019 — Amaechi Ministerial: Rivers APC not surprised with Amaechi’s re-nomination — Finebone OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY