A former acting governor of Kogi State and chieftain of the PDP, Clarence Olafemi, has revealed his plan to dump the PDP for the APC over alleged injustices meted out to him. Olafemi, who was the campaign DG to Abubakar Ibrahim in the last primary election of the PDP, said his party has “cheated” him on several occasions and he therefore could no longer pitch his tent with them. He said his recent visit to Governor Yahaya Bello was because of what he described as impunity in the PDP. He said he was one of the strong members of PDP in the state, yet the National Working Committee of the party failed to recognize his input and efforts for the party. “I was the running mate to Jubril Isah Echocho in the 2015 governorship primary election of the party but we were later replaced by the party which brought in Captain Idris Wada, and Yomi Awoniyi as running mate, without any reason. “In the 2019 general elections, I was one of the senatorial aspirants from Kogi West, but I was denied from contesting as the party imposed Senator Dino Melaye who just decamped from APC back to PDP. “My governorship aspirant in the just concluded primary of the party, Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim Idris, was denied the ticket. It was given to Engr. Musa Wada because they hate Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, the former governor of the state. “With all these cases of impunity, how do you expect me to continue staying in PDP? Am not the first person to decamp from one party to another. President Muhammadu Buhari, and my mentor, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, all decamped from one party to another. Am not going to be the first or the last. “I had a fruitful discussion with Governor Yahaya Bello and I am very satisfied with the outcome of our meeting,” Olafemi said. Bello emerges Kogi governor as PDP heads to tribunal Kogi guber: Why Bello picked Onoja as running mate Power shift not dead in Kogi, says PDP guber running mate OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY