The Sokoto State Commissioner for Careers and Security Services, Col Garba Moyi (rtd) said the state government negotiation with bandits was delayed until after their return from the 2019 Hajj exercise. Daily Trust learnt that the deputy Governor of the state and Col Moyi led the state government delegation in the negotiation before their trip to Saudi Arabia. The deputy Governor was appointed leader of the state government hajj delegation in which the commissioner was a member. In an interview with newsmen, he said they received several calls from the bandits while in the Holy land but told them to be patient until they return home so that they could continue with negotiations. “They agreed with all our terms and we also agreed with their conditions. This is why they released over 20 captives including Nigerien citizens and indigenes of Zamafara State before our trip,” he said. The conditions given by the bandits were establishment of Ruga, schools for their children and cattle route among others, which the commissioner said they were ready to comply with. He explained that the negotiation did not involve bandits operating in Kebbe, Tureta and Dange-Shuni local government areas but they had extended their invitation to them. According to him, the recent attack on Katsira in SabonBirni local government was targeted at members of Yan Sakai who were persecuting Fulanis in the area despite the peace pact and renegades among the Fulanis carried it out. “You know there are renegade among them just as we have saboteurs on our own side who do not want the deal to succeed because they are feeding fat from the problem,” he said. He assured the people of the state that Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal would do all it takes to ensure that peace is restored to the state. Sokoto government secures release of 3 captives Sokoto says no more captive as bandits release 3 Bandits kill three young men in Sokoto OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY