A letter purportedly written by bandits to Kuraye village in Charanchi local government area warning them to get prepared for an attack, is causing serious tension and apprehension amongst the residents. The letter, which has gone viral in most social media groups in the state, is presently being investigated by police to ascertain it’s authenticity. Arewa Trust Weekly gathered that already three persons have been arrested from the town and moved to the Divisional Police headquarters for questioning. The letter, which contents was written in Hausa, spoke of a planned attack on the village. “No matter what measures are put in place we are coming with 150 motorcycles and 7 Hilux vans to attack so get prepared till we come,’’ the letter read. A resident, who declined to disclosed his name for fear of the consequences, said although they were yet to determine the authenticity of the letter  many people are scared and some have decided to leave the village. “We heard stories of neighbouring places having received such letters and their towns or villages were invaded,’’ he said. ‎Another said, “People discuss this at every forum, we hardly sleep since this letter was found.  Government should please step up and bring this to an end.” The District Head of Kuraye, Abdullahi Abubakar said the situation started three days ago when some students picked up the said letter and handed it over to their teacher who passed it to a vigilante official before it finally reached the office of the village head. “The village head approached me with it and such kind of issues you don’t take them for granted. We as well wrote and forwarded it to the next line of command available to us, the Palace of the Emir of Katsina and security operatives in our local government councils. “On that very night the DPO sent in patrol team to the town that brought a little relief. It is now left for them to see if we desire to be protected against the perceived attack or not,” he added When contacted the spokesman of the state police command SP Gambo Isah said police have commenced investigation into the matter. “Threats of this magnitude cannot be down played. Don’t hesitate to share any information, even rumours that affect the security of the state to security agencies” he said.  Boko Haram sends threat letter to Chibok From Hope Abah, Makurdi  Residents of Agatu in Benue State yesterday said  “strange looking” gunmen were marching into interior Agatu villages after renewed violence in the riverine areas of the local government area Sunday when gunmen suspected to be her Insurgents kill 9 soldiers in Adamawa OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY