The Comptroller-General, Nigeria Customs Service, Col Hameed Ali (rtd), says Nigerian borders would remain closed until neighboring countries comply with protocols on movement of goods and persons as established by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Speaking with newsmen during a visit to the Idiroko border in Ogun State, Ali said there is no end insight to the partial closure of land borders until the condition is met. The Customs CG who was with the Controller-General of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, noted that adherence to protocols on movement of persons and goods would ensure mutual benefit of the countries and  enhance coexistence. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Ali maintained that the border closure was never intended to be in force within 28 days. While commending the joint security operatives deployed for the enforcement of the policy, Ali said President Muhammadu Buhari had expressed satisfaction with the operations. “It was never meant to end at the end of the 28th day. As for planning purposes, we take it step by step. Phase one was when we put 28 days. The border drill has no definitive end, but what we believe we want is that we want to establish relationship with our neighbours and this relationship is mutual coexistence. “And unless we get to that point, where we now sit down and agree on the way we can complement one another, the way we can adhere to the protocols of movement of goods and persons, we would not have achieved. “So, we will keep this drill going on until we get to the point where we now sit down and agree on the basic things that will mutually benefit us and mutually enhance our coexistence and ensure that the protocols established by ECOWAS, not by Nigeria, are adhered to strictly,” he said.  Nigeria gives condition to re-open borders Borders will remain closed, Customs CG says Nigerian border will remain closed, says Customs CG