Many cases are still pending at the election petition tribunals, less than two weeks to the September 30th deadline for the conclusion of the exercise, our correspondents report. Daily Trust reports that aggrieved candidates who contested the governorships, national and state assembly elections had dragged those declared winners by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to the election petitions tribunals nationwide. Reports from across the states by our correspondents revealed that many of the cases are still pending about a week after the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal (PEPT) delivered its judgement on a petition filed by the PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar against President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory. In Bauchi, our correspondent reports that the tribunal received a total of 31 petitions for the governorship, National Assembly and State House of Assembly elections. Four out of it 31 were for governorship,13 National Assembly (Senate and the House of Representatives), while 14 were for the Bauchi State House of Assembly elections. There are presently nine petitions pending at the tribunal. Our correspondent in Ogun reports that 12 petitions are pending before the two National and State Houses of Assembly Election Petitions Tribunals sitting in Abeokuta. The pending petitions are before Justice Josephine Coker and the Justice Wakili Gana panels which are expected to conclude their assignment on or before September 25. Tribunal Secretary Nyior Henry Sekulla told Daily Trust that out of the 12 petitions, nine are pending before the Justice Coker-led panel, while three are before the Justice Gana team. Judgements on all the pending cases have, however, been fixed for September 18, 19, 20 and 21, Sekulla said. Already, the governorship panel led by Justice Yusuf Halilu has concluded its assignment following the judgement delivered on Saturday. In Lagos, there are three cases pending at the Lagos governorship and national assembly election petitions tribunals. They include the petitions of Labour Party (LP), Alliance for Democracy (AD) and their candidates, Ifagbemi Awamaridi and Owolabi Salis, respectively, against the election of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The other cases are the petitions on the National Assembly elections for Ojo Federal Constituency and Ajeromi/Ifelodun. Hon. Tajudeen Obasa of the PDP was declared winner by INEC but the APC candidate, Yinka Durosinmi, is challenging the election. For Ajeromi/Ifelodun, the PDP candidate, Rita Oji is contesting the victory of Hon. Kolawole Taiwo of the APC. Cases pending at the Edo State election petition tribunal are, Etsako West Constituency II, with the petitioner Afebu Aigbonaga (PDP) against Seidu Oshiomhole. In Nasarawa State, there are three cases pending at the National and State Houses of Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Lafia. Secretary of the tribunal, Mukhtar Bello said 28 cases were filed at the tribunal and that three cases are pending. According to him, the tribunal would conclude its assignment at the end of the month. In Benue State, nine cases are said to be pending even as the panel would be expected to conclude its work on or before September 30. Judgements have since been delivered on all petitions in Gombe State, our correspondent reports. In Rivers State, the only election case before the tribunal is that of Governor Nyesom Wike (PDP) and AAC governorship candidate, Biokpomabo Awala. The AAC governorship candidate is challenging the election of Governor Wike at the election tribunal. No date has been fixed for the conclusion of the matter. The election petition tribunal has two petitions to be decided before the six months expiration date expected by end of this month. In Niger, there are three pending cases against the outcome of the last general elections in the state. In Sokoto,15 cases are pending at the tribunal in the state. They include one governorship and 14 State House of Assembly cases. It was gathered that the tribunal is expected to conclude its assignment early October. Can Wike, Rivers’ legislators turn the hands of the clock? Elections: Tribunal in Katsina warns counsel against delay tactics Gbajabiamila’s victory: Lagos to drag tribunal to NJC OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY