The Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM-Chartered) has called for an effective review of the democratic system and structure of the country for the benefit of all citizens. Prof. Olukunle Iyanda, the National President and Chairman of Council, NIM, made this call in Abuja on Monday at the 2019 Annual National Management Conference with the theme: “Managing the Challenges of Democracy.’’ He said it is important to proffer lasting solutions to the challenges of insurgency and insecurity facing the nation’s democracy. He also said there was need to monitor the usage of public fund for developmental projects to avoid corruption. “Democratic challenges affecting the nation includes corruption; inequality; sectionalism; abuse of authority; incompetence; citizen alienation and vote trading among others. “Democracy should be seen as a system that would guarantee security and all citizens should benefit from it through developmental goals. “People should have equal access to quality education, effective healthcare system, good road network among others that could be enjoyed by the citizens through effective democratic system. “If citizens can enjoy all the benefits of democracy, this will foster national unity, thereby raising the well-being of the citizens,’’ Iyanda said. According to Iyanda, these numerous challenges are not insurmountable, and could be avoided or minimised through good professional management practice. “This is the task we have set for ourselves at this conference, to find ways and measures to manage the challenges inherent in democracy with a view to maximising its enormous benefits. “We believe that successful professional management of the democratic system would promote a unity of purpose between the governors and the governed and between the people and their representatives,” he said. Prof. Liasu Jinadu, a Professor of Political Science, Claude Ake School of Government, University of Port Harcourt, said the deepening distance between the country’s political leadership and the generality of the people had been a challenge. Jinadu, in a paper: “ Managing the Challenges of Democracy’’ said there was need for constitutional division of powers and functions between the Federal Government and sub-national units of government. According to him, recognition, promotion and protection of positive rights such as cultural, economic and social rights, in addition to the customary civil and political rights is needed to advance the course of the nation. “The massive problem of structural and political culture is characterised by the way state power is used to corruptly enrich and not for the enhancement and sustainability of human development. “In Nigeria, democracy has developed around the adoption of federalism as the mechanism for managing diversities, particularly ethnic, racial and related citizenship one. “There should be the establishment of horizontal democracy promoting governance institutions to ensure accountability and transparency in public life, by providing for their insulation from the deployment of political influence,’’ he said. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the forum aimed at proffering lasting solutions to current challenges towards moving the country forward. (NAN) National Identification Number central to achieving economic growth – Engr Aziz Nigeria’s need for  civic education Nigeria undergoes 2nd peer review OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY