The minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, has asked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate in the last general elections, Atiku Abubakar, to apologize to Nigerians for wilfully distracting the Buhari Administration with a frivolous election petition, instead of appealing the ruling of Wednesday’s Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. In a statement issued in St Petersburg, Russia, on Thursday by the minister, he said while the PDP and its candidate reserve the right to pursue their petition to the highest level, they will be better served by dropping their toga of desperation and realizing that ‘there is a limit to tomfoolery.’ ”Nigerians are tired of this orchestrated distraction, and will rather wish that the opposition, having lost at the polls and in court, will now join hands with the government to move Nigeria to the next level. ”This is more so that the judgement validating the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari was unanimous that the petition lacked merit, that the petitioners failed to prove any of the grounds upon which their case was anchored and that President Buhari is eminently qualified to contest the poll,” he said. Mohammed said instead of casting aspersion on the judiciary with their poorly-framed reaction to the ruling of the tribunal, the PDP and its candidate should be thanking their stars that they are not being prosecuted for coming to court with a fraudulently-obtained evidence. ”It is intriguing that a party that trumpets the rule of law at every turn will present, in open court, evidence it claimed to have obtained by hacking into a supposed INEC server. Don’t they realize this is a criminal act for which they are liable? “Instead of threatening to head to the Supreme Court, driven more by ego than commonsense, they should be sorry for allowing desperation to overwhelm their sense of reasoning. Enough is enough,” he said. The minister commended the tribunal for not only doing justice to the case but for explaining, in painstaking details that lasted hours, how it arrived at its judgement. ”We also thank Nigerians, who voted massively to re-elect President Buhari, for their continued support,” he said. Presidential tribunal reserves judgement after final written addresses Opposition, cohorts want to derail Nigerian government Tribunal: 5 Constitutional grounds to decide Buhari, Atiku's fate today OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY