President Muhammadu Buhari will be travelling to South Africa next month to hold talks with his South African counterpart following the xenophobic attacks targeting Nigerians and other foreigners in the country. Buhari’s visit is to reinforce the bonds between the two countries after a wave of deadly riots and xenophobic attacks. He will make a state visit to South Africa in October to help develop responses to the challenges in both countries after Ramaphosa held discussions with Nigeria’s special envoy, Reuters quoted the South African Presidency as saying in a statement. “The special envoy conveyed President Buhari’s concern at recent events in South Africa, in the context of the strong and cordial relations that characterise the interaction between the two countries,” the Presidency said. It said Buhari’s government planned to act against the targeting of South African assets in Nigeria and reaffirmed relations with South Africa. The violence in South Africa has stoked concerns about relations between Africa’s two biggest economies. Nigeria said on Thursday it would recall its top diplomat to Pretoria. President Buhari’s special envoy, the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Abubakar, has met South African President Cyril Ramaphosa over xenophobic attacks. South Africans unleashed terror on foreign nationals, including Nigerians in their country. Businesses owned by foreigners, especially Africans, were vandalised, thus triggering protests and global condemnations. President Buhari had, on the heels of the attacks on Nigerians in South Africa, dispatched the NIA boss as his special envoy to meet President Ramaphosa over the issue. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that the NIA DG, who had been in Johannesburg since Thursday, met President Ramaphosa on Friday afternoon and is back in the country, according to media reports. It was gathered that the meeting, held behind closed doors, was attended by the Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa, Ambassador Kabiru Bala and other officials. Contacted twice, Nigeria’s Consul General in Johannesburg, Mr. Godwin Adama, told our correspondent that he was in a meeting yesterday. “I will call you back please, I’m in a meeting,” he told our correspondent twice yesterday afternoon. Later in the day, when his mobile phone was dialed, it was not reachable. Multiple Presidential Villa sources told our correspondent that the arrival of the special envoy was being awaited by the president. “The envoy is being awaited by Mr. President. His arrival would determine the next line of action,” a source who doesn’t want to be named said. Presidential spokesperson, Femi Adesina, last night told our correspondent that he had no information about the envoy’s meeting with South African president. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, had said that the special envoy would return at the weekend, and that the president would address the nation afterward. “Hopefully, the envoy will be back by the end of this week. Ideally, Mr. President will decide how he will communicate to the nation, whether through live address or a written statement. But we feel that it will be better for him to do that once he has all the elements. “We feel it will be better let the special envoy come back and then we will have everything we need and he will address the nation on that,’’ he said. Nigeria had pulled out of the World Economic Forum (WEF) held in Cape Town and said it would recall its High Commissioner after the special envoys meeting with President Ramaphosa. Last month during a telephone conversation, President Buhari and Ramaphosa agreed to meet in October to discuss issues relating to wellbeing of citizens and ways to further strengthen trade relations between the two largest African economies. In a telephone conversation with the South African leader at his country home in Daura, Katsina State, Buhari accepted an invitation to visit the country to further “consider recurrent issues concerning the wellbeing of the Nigerian community in South Africa, and the need to promote trade and investment.’’ Attacks: Buhari’s envoy NIA DG meets Ramaphosa today Xenophobic attacks in South Africa... Nigeria recalls envoy, pulls out of economic summit Xenophobic attacks: Buhari sends envoy to South Africa OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY