The Federation of Muslim  Women Association  in Nigeria (FOMWAN) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has trained 50 unemployed people on tailoring and catering services to enable them become self-reliant. The training was organised by FOMWAN in collaboration with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). Certificates of completion were handed to the young entrepreneurs at a graduation ceremony held on Tuesday at the FOMWAN Training Centre in Abuja. Mrs Bola Usman, the “Amira’’ FCT chapter of FOMWAN, said the 50 trainees were drawn from the six area councils as part of the association’s flagship initiative toward empowering unemployed youths. She therefore urged the beneficiaries to utilise the opportunity toward self sustenance and employ others as well. Dr Nasir Mohammed, Director General of NDE, commended FOMWAN for the initiative, adding that the directorate was willing to partner with relevant organisations  for such empowerment. The D-G, represented by Mrs Naomi Nyadar, State Coordinator, NDE FCT, noted that the organisation had designed four-core flagship programmes toward addressing unemployment across the country. “One of such programmes is the Vocational Skills Development (VSD) charged with the responsibility of imparting vocational skills to unemployed youths, women and vulnerable groups, as well as school dropouts and retirees through various schemes. “It is heart-warming therefore to note that these youths and women have become the next generation of great caterers, master chefs and fashion designers. They are now equipped to produce the needed products and services for the economic growth of our dear country,” he said. Ms Alabi Ayomide, Class Representative of the catering course graduates, expressed gratitude to the NDE and Muslim women for the privilege. “With these skills we have acquired, we are ready to make successful career in catering services, and we are very grateful,”  she said. (NAN) NDE, centre train 52 youths in vocational skills in Bwari NDE trains 50 unemployed, vunerable people in Karu NDE equips unemployed FCT youths OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY