The Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Chief Elias Mbam, has disclosed that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) contributed 59.7 per cent to the Federation Account in the last three months, representing more than half of total revenues generated by the Federal Government. Chief Mbam stated this yesterday during a visit to the FIRS headquarters in Abuja. Mbam, who led a team of RMAFC commissioners and other management members of the commission, said FIRS had been the major contributor to the Federation Account. He said: “The average contribution from the FIRS in the last three months is about 59.7 per cent. In other words, more than half of the revenue shared to the three tiers of government comes from the FIRS. So, I thank you for that effort.” He also noted that the RMAFC and FIRS would continue to collaborate, adding that, “You will recall, Mr. Chairman, that sometime in June you were present when the members of the RMAFC were sworn in; they have all assumed duty. And in order to understand the terrain, they need to familiarise themselves with major stakeholders of the commission; the activities they do, so as to aid them in their work. One of our major stakeholders is the FIRS. “We are here to familiarise ourselves with your activities; to know areas of collaboration, your challenges, which we will also help to pass to the Federal Government. We also want to know where we can be of help. We are all working for the same government and our work is collaborative.” Responding, the Executive Chairman of FIRS, Tunde Fowler, noted that FIRS would continue to do its best to generate revenue to fund the three tiers of government. Fowler said, “We are deploying technologies to make it easy for tax payers to pay their taxes conveniently, even from the comfort of their homes or offices, download tax receipts and do other transactions with FIRS without visiting the tax office. “We know the need for increased revenue to the government and we will continue to do our best to fund the three tiers of government.” While presenting a book on President Muhammadu Buhari titled: “Taxpayers are King” to Mbam, Fowler said FIRS adopted the book to underscore the “selfless service of President Buhari to Nigeria”. He further said: “President Muhammadu Buhari has demonstrated an uncommon love for this country. His love for the country led him to the military where he served very well and became a military head of state. His passion for Nigeria prompted him to contest an election to be a civilian president. “He had gone as long as determining to lay down his life to look for the interest of the people of this country. The style of President Muhammadu Buhari is what we are adopting in FIRS. We make it clear to ourselves that our job must be for the love of the country.” More than half federal funds come from FIRS, says RMAFC Absence of 30 commissioners  grounds activities at RMAFC FIRS generates N13bn from billionaire tax defaulters OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY