The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, last Wednesday, after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja, said government plans to increase VAT rate from five per cent to 7.2 per cent. Meanwhile, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) operators have been reacting to the proposed increment saying it would shoot the cost of doing business and force many of them to close-shop. A shoemaker and CEO of Shoespeed Interglobal Services Limited based in Lagos, Abiodun Folawiyo, said in developed countries like Italy, where SMEs have electricity, good roads, access to funding and more, people did not mind when government charged exorbitant taxes because entrepreneurs knew what they would do with it. “But in Nigeria, they collect money from us, and the next thing you hear is that someone stole N30 billion. “So, the tax they collect is not being translated to good use, to provide infrastructure. There is no effort by government to fix infrastructure in the country that will translate into another means of the Ease of Doing Business,” he said. Folawiyo said government should, instead, give SMEs tax holiday. “For me, I think government should give SMEs tax holiday. It should declare tax holiday for us and not tax increment. Government should make Ease of Doing Business more attractive for us and foreign investors instead of increasing tax,” he said. Another entrepreneur, Mrs Ekaette Umoh, also said government has no basis increasing tax when it has not improved on infrastructure to create enabling environment for SMEs. “Here in Nigeria, many of us have to spend a lot on infrastructure. So, what is the basis for increasing VAT? What infrastructure has been improved on before increasing tax?  All the VAT that has been collected, what was done with it?” “We had to repair the road to my former office by ourselves.  Electricity is epileptic. The government has not fixed the road to make it more accessible or improved on electricity so I don’t have to use generator for 12 hours a day. “If you are providing basic infrastructure, I won’t mind but government is not doing that. This VAT increment shows lack of creativity by our government,” she said. Umoh said the increment will not in any way drive investment. “Investment is what Nigeria desperately needs to checkmate the massive unemployment level we have,” she added. The CEO of Dolphin Restaurant and Catering Services, Chef Nneka Agbo, said the consumers are going to feel the impact of the increment the more. “Basically, the increment will directly be transferred to customers such that it will impact on their earnings and savings. However the downturn for registered businesses such as ours will be that customers will now prefer to patronise substandard and unregistered eateries, food joints and restaurants for their daily meals. “Sales will be affected and the purpose for which the VAT was increased may not be achieved and government revenue from this source might dwindle,” she said. A senior economist with SPM Professionals, Mr Paul Alaje, said many SMEs will close shop as a result of the VAT increment. “Most SMEs have disposable income which means cost of living will be higher. Many SMEs will go down the drain because they cannot compete in this environment. With 7.2% VAT, there is no consideration for SMEs and it might become very difficult for them to do business. Some of them will have to close shop,” Alaje said. “I am worried because I think government should have considered SMEs. Though the argument of government is that in other countries, more VAT is charged.  But what government has not mentioned is that, living standard in those environments is better than what we have in Nigeria and support for small businesses is more in those countries than we have in Nigeria. “Government may have to reconsider, especially as it affects small businesses, so we don’t have more deaths of small businesses,” Alaje also said. Dr. Mustapha Shitu, a lecturer in the Business Management Department, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, told Daily Trust that while an increased VAT regime will improve government revenue profile and help it meet some fiscal needs, small businesses would certainly bear the brunt. According to him, if VAT is increased, it will have an “impact on SMEs. It is going to be costly for them to do business because they have to calculate VAT on every product at every step of the process (increase in the amount of accounting a business needs to perform).” “The increase will hurt small businesses that do not have the knowledge of accounting principles to help them keep track. They will also have to increase the prices of their products and services, which in the long run will stifle sales,” he noted. Dr. Shitu also queried government’s integrity to judiciously use the funds generated from the increased VAT. However, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Ahmed, stated the reason for the planned increment of the tax: “We are proposing and council has agreed to increase the VAT rate from five per cent to 7.2 per cent. This is important because the federal government only retains 15 per cent of the VAT; 85 per cent is actually for the states and local governments.” “The states need additional revenue to be able to meet the obligations of the minimum wage,” Ahmed explained. Experts say it is important for government to address current issues that surround the administration of VAT in the country in order to encourage voluntary compliance of taxpayers before increasing the VAT rate. “For example, government has to put in place structures to plug revenue leakages and ensure transparency in the appropriation of VAT funds as that would largely help boost taxpayers’ confidence in the system,” the experts said.  “In addition, other issues such as the full recoverability of VAT on services and VAT-exempt items should be adequately addressed as a number of Nigerian businesses are currently unable to recover their input VAT on services and exempt items. “Thus, an increase in VAT rate without adequate recoverability mechanism may simply increase the VAT burden on already compliant taxpayers,” experts say. Work on VAT implementation, not increase, ex ANAN president urges FG Experts differ as labour,  others reject VAT hike This budget hides something OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY