As China marks 70 years of its establishment as a nation, and 48 years of diplomatic relations with Nigeria, the Chinese Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria has said that its country’s investments in Nigeria’s manufacturing sector have risen to  $3bn cumulatively. The Vice President of China Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, Mr Li Yuau, said this on Monday in Abuja at the 70th anniversary of China as a nation celebration. “Preliminary statistics shows that Chinese investment in manufacturing sector in Nigeria has grown rapidly, $3bn in cumulative terms, creating in the process, tens of thousands of jobs for local communities. ‘This is a testament to mutually beneficial relations between Nigeria and China,” he said. He added that since establishing diplomatic ties with Nigeria in 1971,  China has sponsored over 4,500 officials from Nigeria to China for seminars and workshops. On the 48 Nigerians given various forms of awards, Mr Yuau explained that, “The October 1 award is dedicated to 48 local employees for their dedication to work and for outstanding contribution to China and Nigeria cooperation.” He said the China Chamber of Commerce exists to facilitate harmonious trade relations between Chinese companies and Nigeria to promote legitimate interest of China businesses and people. “Our aim is to promote exchange between China and Nigeria to provide services to Chinese companies. This night is a tribute to China’s achievements in the last 70 years. It is a tribute to the 48th anniversary of diplomatic ties between Nigeria and China,” Yuau said. He said “About 33 years ago, when I was an embassy staff in Lagos, a lot has changed in both Nigeria and China. Strong bond of friendship has been sustained between Nigeria and China. We have treated each other equally, with sincerity and friendship, based on mutual trust and assistance. “Our friendship has stood the test of changing international landscape and has taken root in our people’s hearts.” The Minister of State FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani, who represented the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, pledged the continuous support of the authority towards enhancing mutual, cordial relations between Nigeria and China. ‘China aims to export to other countries from Nigeria’ CBN sold 1.3bn Yuan to stabilise forex demand in 12 months Substandard products in Nigeria not from China - Chamber OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY