The Maiduguri office of another international humanitarian agency, Mercy Corps, was yesterday locked by soldiers who took over the premises of the office. A source told our correspondent that the closure of the Mercy Corps (MC) office was related to the sum of N29 million cash that was intercepted in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. It would be recalled that N54 million allegedly belonging to Mercy Corps was intercepted at the Maiduguri International Airport by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in March this year. A statement then by the EFCC noted that it was probing alleged “cases of criminal conspiracy, money laundering and terrorist financing initiated following an intelligence report to the commission on the 18th March, 2019 against Mercy Corps and four others’’. According to the statement, four persons and two Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) were connected to the seized cash and were being investigated. The EFCC gave the names of the suspects as Abdullahi Yarima, Francis Bako, Saraya Umaru, James K. Yadzugwa, while the NGOs were Mercy Corps and Development Exchange Centre. “The commission acted on intelligence report to intercept the cash at the airport,” the statement, explained, adding, “an investigation into Mercy Corps’ accounts revealed that it has 15 bank accounts with different Bank Verification Numbers (BVN). “Also a BVN search on Development Exchange Centre showed that it had 40 bank accounts with different Bank Verification Numbers,” the statement said at that time. Officials of the affected NGOs were not available for comment at the time of filing this report. On Wednesday last week, Action Against Hunger (AAH) announced that they were directed to leave Borno State. The following day, the Nigerian Army issued a statement accusing AAH of aiding Boko Haram insurgents. A senior military officer told our correspondent that the clampdown may be extended to more NGOs in weeks to come, alleging that some of the NGOs operating in the North-east were working in support of the war by insurgents on the nation. Boko Haram: Nigerian Army suspends another NGO in Borno EFCC recovered N196 million in Borno in one year – official EFCC intercepts $2.8 million at Enugu Airport OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY