The recent directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) asking  Nigerians to exchange their  mutilated naira notes to any bank branch closer to them has generated a lot of confusion among traders and customers in some markets in Katsina State. The directive, according to media reports, is part of the bank’s effort to improve the quality of the Naira notes in circulation. The CBN had given a September 2 deadline for people to submit their mutilated notes  to the banks for exchange with new ones. However, this directive has caused confusion as traders were seen at Funtua market rejecting any old or mutilated naira note from their customers. This situation has hampered the smooth trading activities in the market with many people lamenting on the adverse effects of the ‘untimely’ CBN policy. Alhaji Abdulkadir Ahmad a trader said the nexus of the confusion in the markets and towns is lack of clear understanding of the directive given by the CBN. “What is going round here in the market is that banks will no longer accept any mutilated naira note, with some traders claiming that they took their old and mutilated notes to banks but were rejected. Thus the story going round now is that any trader who accepts mutilated naira notes does so at his own peril. People generally got scared and began to consider any mutilated notes as useless piece of paper.” He added that most of the people depend on second hand information as their source of news with only a few paying attention to the media. He said many others use sentiments in interpreting information they got. “Those who are on the side of opposition will always paint the news to suit their sentiments and rebroadcast it to others who have no access to the original information,’’ Alhaji Abduakdir said. Arewa Trust Weekly reports the confusion has spread to other markets in   Dandume,  Sheme and Bakori which are the major towns in the area, with some attributing the new directive to the nation’s poor economy. Sani Rabe, a grain dealer, said the development affected mostly petty traders who deal with lower denomination currency notes. “As you know the most mutilated Naira notes are N5, N10, N20 and N50, denominations. Our business deals with higher currency denominations usually N1000 notes, that is why here in the grain section we are less affected with this CBN confusion. “ He pointed out that it is the responsibility of the commercial banks to visit market leaders and reorient them on the new policy to douse fears among the traders. Sani added that if there is no quick intervention some unscrupulous elements may take advantage of the situation and start defrauding people through buying the mutilated Naira notes. Last Friday Imams at Funtua, Bakori and Dandume mosques have drawn the attention of people to desist from peddling rumors and seek clarifications from their nearest commercial banks.  How to tackle dirty naira notes – Experts Dirty and mutilated naira notes Customers will continue to return mutilated notes to banks after Sept.2 — CBN OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY