The Panel-Two of the National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Kano on Thursday upheld the electoral victory of the House Leader, Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa of All Progressives Congress (APC) at the 2019 national assembly election. Doguwa, a member representing Doguwa/Tudun-Wada federal constituency, was challenged before the tribunal by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Air Commodore Salisu Shehu (rtd), with allegations of over-voting and other electoral malpractices. In its judgement, the three-man tribunal led by Hon. Justice Nayai Aganaba, dismissed the petition on grounds that the petitioners have failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt, granting a cost of N300,000 against them. Reacting to the judgement, counsel to the petitioners, Barrister Ibrahim Isa Wangida, said they would analyze the judgment and see if there is any ground for appeal, they would advise their clients accordingly. In the same vein, the tribunal had earlier upheld the election victory of Hon. Abdulmumini Jibril Kofa, member representing Kiru/Bebeji federal constituency. Kofa’s victory was challenged by PDP and its candidate, Aliyu Datti Yako, on grounds of over-voting and other electoral malpractices. The court, however, dismissed the petition, saying the petitioners have failed to prove their allegations beyond reasonable doubt. Similarly, the tribunal has upheld the election victory of Hon. Sani Ma’aruf Nass, member representing Minjibir/Ungogog federal constituency. PDP and its candidate, Muhammad Tajo Usman, had filed the petition on ground that Nass did not attend secondary school, saying the PDP candidate was excluded during election. The tribunal in its judgement dismissed the petition on ground that the petitioners have failed to prove their allegations beyond reasonable doubt. Tribunal dismisses petition against Folarin, three others Again, Tribunal upholds Uba Sani’s victory Yobe: Tribunal dismisses Aminu's petition over exclusion OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY