The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) is set to train 300 persons on various skills in Bauchi state. Speaking during the orientation and screening exercise of the trainees at the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity Training Institute Bauchi on Monday, the Director General of ITF, Sir Joseph N. Ari, said the training is part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s employment creation drive. Ari, who was represented by Bauchi ITF Area Manager, Richard A. Baba, said the training is being conducted through the National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP). OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY According to him, the employment creation programme is the key to overcoming the economic challenges facing the country. The DG expressed his appreciation to the trainees for their readiness to participate in the training to learn skills and become self-reliant. He however cautioned the participants against truancy and urged them to maintain punctuality throughout the training. The Principal of the Institute, Ishaku Benjamin Kuriya, said the institute is ready to train the participants in their various selected trades and skills. According to him, the institute is undertaking training for its students in 18 different trades and skills. He advised the trainees to remain functional adding that none of the trainees will be certified with less than 95 percent attendance. Speaking on behalf of other trainees, a trainee, Adamu Bala, commended ITF for giving them the opportunity. He urged other participants to utilise the opportunity and participate fully in the programme in order to develop their skills for self-reliance. The training would be conducted simultaneously in centres across the three senatorial zones of the state located in Azare, Misau, Bauchi and Ningi. The trainees will be trained in various trades such as furniture making, leather works, electrical works, catering and hotel management and other skills. ITF trains 4000 unemployed youths on vocational skills in Bauchi ITF trains 4,000 Buachi youths, women in skills acquisition ITF equips 300 graduate trainees in Nasarawa