President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in New York unfolded plans and initiatives by his administration to reverse the negative effects of climate change in the country. He described climate change as a human-induced phenomenon. Buhari unveiled the plans in his address to the United Nations Climate Action Summit with the theme, “A Race We Can Win. A Race We Must Win.” The president shared the sentiment expressed by the UN Secretary-General António Guterres that the world is on the verge of climate catastrophe. He underscored the need to step up collective climate actions in line with the request of the Secretary General and renewed Nigeria’s commitment to its obligation under the Paris Agreement, the aspirations enshrined in Nationally Determined Contribution to ensure a resilient future that mainstreams climate risks in its decision making. He expressed commitment to taking concrete steps to harness climate innovative ideas by including youths in decision making processes as part of over-all climate governance architecture and mobilize Nigerian youths towards planting 25m trees to enhance Nigeria’s carbon sink. He said the country was “specifically” and “progressively” working to realize 30 percent energy efficiency and renewable energy mix by 2030, stressing that it was envisaged to lead to 179m tons of carbon dioxide reduction per annum by 2030. He also informed the summit of the introduction of Climate Smart Agricultural Practices to unlock 74m tons of carbon dioxide per annum, through relevant technologies, advocacy and best practices. He reiterated the readiness of Nigeria to continue to lead in efforts to have solid partnerships for the ecological restoration and recharge of the Lake Chad Basin.  Nigeria working to achieve 30 percent renewable energy mix by 2030 – Buhari In Paris, President Buhari makes a strong pitch for Lake Chad Ban Ki-moon visit: Shuttle diplomacy OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY