The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, says having succeeded in using Operation Puff Adder to stabilise the public security space, the Nigeria Police Force is currently moving to the next phase of its strategic policing plan woven around two key actions. First, according to him, is the launch of community policing strategy; while the second is the expansion and strengthening of Operation Puff Adder with other complementary strategies. The IGP was speaking at the Southwest Security Network Summit held at the International Conference Centre of the University of Ibadan. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said in relation to the southwest, the Force would soon re-launch the safer city scheme. He said: “We have since purchased new fleet of patrol vans to be deployed across our highways and cities. This will also involve the deployment of cutting-edge CCTV technology for surveillance functions across the highways and vulnerable locations in our communities in the zone and other part of the country.” The IGP said the security situation across Nigeria had been generally stabilised. He disclosed that 363 armed robbers, 147 kidnappers and 425 suspected cultists were arrested in the southwest this year. He said: “Generally speaking, the security situation across the country has been stabilised. However, there are isolated cases of kidnapping and armed robbery in the southwest, particularly along the Benin-Ore-Lagos Highway and across Ondo State. “The reality is that the current concerted operations of the police and other security agencies across the country, particularly along the Niger-Kogi-FCT-kaduna-Katsina and Zamfara areas, have engendered a dispersal and relocation of some of the criminals to new localities including the southwest. “21,300 ammunition of various descriptions and calibre were recovered in various intelligence led operations with the highest number of 5,270 ammunition recovered from criminal syndicates in the south west including about 2,700 ammunition recovered in June, 2019 from a cross-border arms smuggling syndicate in Oyo state. Furthermore, 1,541 stolen vehicles were recovered with 482 of such recoveries achieved in the southwest while a total of 837 kidnapping victims were rescued with 106 of such rescues achieved in the southwest.” Oyo State Seyi Makinde, who read the communiqué after the meeting, said the southwest states had agreed to engage the services of the Odua People’s Congress and the Miyyeti Allah cattle rearers to fight insecurity in the zone. CP leads patrol along Kaduna-Abuja highway, says road now very safe Banditry, Kidnapping, cultism: NEC sets up Security, Policing Committee Insecurity: Ag IGP inaugurates operation “Puff Adder” along Abuja/ Kaduna highway