The National and State House of Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, Ogun State, yesterday voided the election of the member representing Ijebu Central at the House of Representatives, Kolapo Korede Bello. The PDP candidate, Barrister Taiwo Shote, had filed a petition challenging the victory of  Osunsanya the candidate of the APC as declared by INEC. Delivering the judgment, the Justice Wakkil Alkali  Gana-led panel cancelled elections in Ward 5, Unit 5 in Ijebu Ode LGA; Ward 10, Unit 3 in Odogbolu LGA and the entire Ward 8 in Ijebu North East LGA in the constituency. The tribunal held that since the margin of lead and difference between the petitioner and 1st respondent was less than 4,000 and the total number of cancelled votes was 8,800, INEC ought not to have declared him winner of the election in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act. The tribunal further held that the electoral commission should have declared the election inconclusive and held rerun in the affected ward and polling units. The panel, therefore, declared that Osunsanya was not duly elected and ordered that a rerun should be conducted within 90 days in the affected wards and units. In his reaction to the judgment, Shote described it as victory for the rule of law. Meanwhile, the panel has upheld the election of Senator Tolu Odebiyi of APC as duly elected for Ogun West Senatorial seat. The panel dismissed the petition filed by the PDP candidate, Leye Odunjo, in the February 23 election. The tribunal held that the petition failed to prove alleged non-compliance in the National Assembly poll and therefore declared that Odebiyi “scored majority of the lawful votes cast in the election.” INEC had declared Odebiyi winner of Saturday’s poll for Ogun-West Senatorial seat. In another judgment, the Justice Gana-led panel dismissed the petition filed against a member representing Ado Odo/Ota Federal Constituency, Jimoh Ojugbele. The tribunal held that the petition filed by the PDP candidate, Monsuru Sumonu against APC’s Jimoh was “grossly incompetent having been filed outside the 21 days stipulated by law.”  Tribunal nullifies Kashamu, six others’ election in Ogun Ogun guber: INEC declares APC's Dapo Abiodun winner, as APM kicks INEC set for supplementary elections in 18 states tomorrow OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY