Dr Ifeanyichukwu Abada, a Senior Lecturer at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, has advised South African government to take urgent measures to end further xenophobic attack on Nigerians before the situation could get out of hand. Abada, who is the immediate past Head of Political Science Department, gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Nsukka on Thursday. He said that persistent attacks on Nigerians were capable of destroying the diplomatic relations between Nigeria and South Africa, if urgent actions were not taken to end the phenomenon and bring the perpetrators to book. Abada said: “There is urgent need to stop further xenophobic attack on Nigerians in South Africa so that the problem will not mar the diplomatic relations between the two-sister countries. “This is not the first time Nigerians are being attacked in South Africa and this is because South Africa government did nothing much to bring the perpetrators to book to serve as deterrent to others.” He said it was regrettable that the only way to thank Nigeria for all her contributions to end the apartheid regime in South Africa was to launch constant attacks on Nigerian residents. He said: “Nigeria government contributed both financial resources and manpower to end apartheid regime in South Africa. “It’s unfortunate that constant attacks on Nigerians in South Africa is the only way the country can show appreciation to Nigeria and its citizens residents.” Abada commended Federal Government’s official reaction to the attacks, adding that the effort should be sustained. “I am happy to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyema, telling South Africa government that enough is enough, that Nigeria will no longer tolerate xenophobic attack of its citizens in South Africa. “To me, South Africa government should tender unreserved apology to Nigeria over the incessant attacks on Nigerian residents and their property. “If any Nigerian in South Africa commits any crime, he or she should be tried according to the laws of the country but the present unprovoked attack is barbaric and inhuman,” he said. Abada, however, urged Nigerian youths to refrain from any form of reprisal attack on South Africa citizens in Nigeria or their investments, “since two wrongs do not make a right.” “In as much as I condemn the xenophobic attack on Nigerians in South Africa, I do not subscribe to any form of reprisal attack on South Africa people in Nigeria or their businesses,” he said (NAN) Xenophobic attacks in South Africa... Nigeria recalls envoy, pulls out of economic summit Xenophobia: Ex-perm sec urges South African Govt. to punish perpetrators, compensate victims Xenophobia: 9 Nigerian-owned shops burnt in South Africa OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY