Giving all Nigerians unique identity numbers will assist the government in putting up proper economic planning for the country, the Director-General of National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Engr. Aliyu Aziz Abubakar, has said. Engr. Aliyu Abubakar who disclosed this during the commemoration of the International Identity Day in Abuja, revealed that 36.6 million Nigerians had been issued with National Identity Numbers (NIN) as at September 11. He said for Nigeria to enhance governance, help its people rise out of poverty, restore growth and participate in the digital economy, “we need a unique digital identification platform that is linked to functional ID registries for accessing services.” He said the country had begun the mandatory enforcement of the use of the NIN for such services like application for and issuance of passport, registration of voters, opening of bank accounts, all consumer credit transactions, purchase of insurance policies, transactions with social security implications, all land related transactions, transactions specified under the contributory health insurance scheme, payment of taxes, transactions pertaining to pension, admission into schools and all other relevant government services. “Proving ‘who is who’ in Nigeria is critical to accessing services physically and electronically as well as in identifying the targeted beneficiaries of a programme, project or scheme,” Engr. Aziz said. According to him, “there is a strong correlation between identification and service delivery and this is central in the effective delivery of important services to the people by the Federal Government.” He said there was no option for Nigeria than to embrace and implement digital identity as “all modern economic services are done digitally and rely on good identification in order to promote economic growth and opportunities.”  36m Nigerians now on national identity database Fears as mandatory use of NIN commences National Identification Number central to achieving economic growth – Engr Aziz OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY