Police in the FCT have arrested eight suspects in connection with an attempted carjacking in Gwagalada and a robbery in Dutsen Alhaji. The police said they recovered six locally fabricated pistols and 66 rounds of ammunition from suspects in separate operations. The police commissioner, Bala Ciroma, who disclosed this while parading the suspects at the command headquarters in Abuja, yesterday, said the first five suspects were arrested by police from the Gwagwalada Division following a tip off. He said the police patrol team from the division acted promptly after receiving the distress call. He gave the names of the suspects as Suleiman Lawal, Umar Sanda, Ismail Mohammed, Shehu Isah, and Nasiru Audu. He also said the three other suspects were arrested by police operatives who acted on a tip off during a joint patrol of Dutsen-Alhaji division and 50 Squadron of the Mobile Police Force. He gave the names of the suspects as Chijioke Mathias, Ikenna Okafor and Fidelis Okoro, saying the suspects were plotting to carry out a major robbery operation at Dutsen Alhaji when they were arrested. He said exhibits recovered from the suspects include four locally fabricated pistols, 66 rounds of ammunition and some charms, adding that three of the firearms were recovered from one of the suspects, Okafor Ikenna. “It is important to state that Ikenna Okafor, from whose custody three of the firearms and 52 live ammunition were recovered was among the inmates who escaped from Niger State during the 2018 jail break,” the commissioner said. The police commissioner added that a notorious armed robber, Hassan Adamu, had also been arrested. He said a victim whom he robbed in November last year alerted the police after sighting the suspect at a garden in Galadimawa in Abuja. One locally fabricated pistol with three rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the suspect.  FCT police nab 4 kidnap, cultism suspects Police nab suspected robber armed with pistol at Zuba Two ex-convicts nabbed for robbery OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY