Acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoCSF), Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, has tasked workers to be patience, discipline and loyal to the government and service in the interest of the country. She gave the advice on Friday during the special Juma’at Prayer at the National Mosque Abuja as party of activities marking this year’s “Nigeria Civil Service Week celebration 2019”. She was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Abdullaziz Mashi Abdullahi. “The trust given to us by government would not betray. The workers need to be patience, loyalty, obedience and discipline. We all grow through the ranks to be where we are,” he said. On his part, an Imam of the National Mosque, Abuja, Dr. Ibrahim Ahmad Makari, urged workers to emulate the fathers of the nation by being dedicated to service and being patience. “They should continue to work for the progress of the country. And their sacrifice is the present and future generation. Government should make life easier for the workers so that they can continue to serve the nation,” Makari said. He said the salary increment being asked for by workers is not too much due to the present economic condition in the country. According to the calendar of events other activities have also been arranged for the week-long annual event themed “The Intersection of Youth Empowerment and Migration: Entrenching the Culture of Good Governance, ICT and Innovation for Inclusive Service Delivery”. They are sporting activities and medical screening/gymnasium activities at the National Stadium on Saturday, September 21. The event would also feature inter-denominational thanksgiving service, at Living Faith Church, near Kado Estate, Jahi on Sunday. There would also be the public service lecture/creative and innovative writers’ book exhibition on on Wednesday at Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja. The celebration will end with a dinner and award night ceremony on Friday at the Conference Hall, State House, Abuja. FG to centralise MDAs’ payroll, integrates paramilitaries FG commences civil service digitization Patience Jonathan springs more controversy OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY