A Federal High Court sitting in Kano has rejected an application of no case submission filed by the former Minister of Education, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Aminu Bashir Wali and Engineer Mansur Ahmed, in the trial of N950 million campaign fund. When the case came up yesterday for ruling on the application, the judge, Justice Lewis Allagua, said based on the testimonies of the witnesses and evidence presented to the court by the applicant/complainant, the court was convinced that the defendants have case to answer. Justice Allagua said, “the witnesses and evidence tendered before the court by the applicants are cogent, hence, this honourable court is hereby ordering the three defendants to open their defence.” He then set November 18th and 19th for the three defendants to enter defence. Speaking to newsmen shortly after the ruling, counsel to the 2nd and 3rd defendants, who spoke on behalf of the three defendants, Barrister Abdul Adamu Fagge, declared that his clients would get prepared to open defence during the next siting as directed by the court. On the ruling, Barrister Fagge, said, “I cannot comment on it until I consult my clients who will decide on whether to appeal the ruling or not.” Counsel to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr J. A. Ojogba, expressed satisfaction with the ruling, saying the commission presented four witnesses and evidence against the three defendants. Shekarau and Wali are being accused of receiving N25 million while Engineer Ahmed is being accused of receiving N10 million from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) without using any financial institution, an offence contrary to Section 18 and punishable under Section 16 (2b) of the Money Laundering Act. The money, it was gathered, was part of the N950 million sent to Kano State through former Minister of Petroleum, Diezani Allison Madueke, on the eve of the 2015 general elections.  N950m campaign fund: You’ve case to answer, court tells Shekarau, Wali Husband killing: I have no case to answer – Maryam Sanda N950m campaign fund: Shekarau, Wali’s trial commences Nov 19 OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY