The Federal Government, under the Rural Electricity Agency, will commission the largest off-grid solar hybrid power plant in Africa at Bayero University, Kano (BUK) under the Energizing Education Programme (EEP) today. The project will provide 55,815 students and 3,077 staff  with constant electricity supply from the university’s 7.1MW solar hybrid power plant. EEP is a FG’s intervention focused on developing off-grid dedicated independent power plants, rehabilitating existing distribution infrastructure to supply clean, safe and reliable power to 37 federal universities and seven affiliated university teaching hospitals. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The Bayero University commissioning would include the launch of 11.41KM of solar powered street lights as well as a world class renewables training centre. The Managing Director of the REA, Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi, stated that “This is the largest off-grid solar hybrid power plant in Africa; one we, as Nigerians, should be very proud of, thanks to the commitment of the Federal Government towards sustainable energy and education. “Students and staff of Bayero University, Kano can now experience learning and teaching in a safer, cleaner and more conducive academic environment.” One of the major highlights of the event will be the graduation of 20 female students who participated in the Female STEM Students Internship Programme. The female students, who received practical training during the course of the project would be awarded certificates of completion. Commenting on the impact of the BUK solar hybrid installations, Mr. Evangelos Kamaris, Managing Director, METKA West Africa Limited, the EPC contractor said “the state-of-the-art solar hybrid power plant will result in carbon dioxide savings of 108,875,120Ibs, a feat we as green contractors are proud of.” Bayero University, Kano is the second project to be commissioned under Phase 1 of the Energizing Education Programme that will deliver clean and sustainable energy to nine federal universities and one university teaching hospital in the next 4 years, using solar hybrid and/or gas-fired captive power plants. Ebonyi hails REA, as FG commissions first solar hybrid power plant Osinbajo to commission solar power project at FUNAI Osinbajo commissions varsity hybrid solar plant