The Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari over what it described as unwarranted harassment of its members by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led government in the state. The APC, in a petition signed by the state Chairman, Daniel Nwafor, said the state government was pursuing a complete disbandment of the APC in the state by demonising its leaders and members through ‘orchestrated and unverifiable allegations’ of fraud in order to incite the people. The party claimed that its members had been marked for attacks as allegedly exemplified in the last 90 days when their homes and business concerns were ‘ruthlessly’  raided under the pretence  of looking for looted government properties. The APC asked the president to launch an ‘incisive and thorough’ investigation into the matter. The petition read in part: “The APC, Imo State chapter, wishes to petition your office to intervene and save our party faithful and members in Imo State from harm, damages, consequences of violence due to the incessant threats, intimidation and harassment of our members and leader, Distinguished Senator, Owelle Rochas Okorocha and his teeming supporters. “Since May 29 when the present Governor Emeka Ihedioha took over the governance of the state, torture, intimidation, harassment, or unlawful seizure of persons and properties of the past governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, his immediate family and the APC members by the current government and its agents has been the order of the day. “Sir, the most worrisome, embarrassing and violence-prone, was a conspiracy-threat and ambush at the Imo  International Cargo Airport on the 29th day of August, 2019 against Senator Okorocha and his supporters who they heard would have come into Imo  State from Abuja on that fateful day. “It is pertinent to inform you that thugs were hired from different parts of the federation to attack Senator Okorocha if he had arrived Owerri. A video plate is attached to substantiate this claim. “Furthermore, if probably the senator’s brothers, immediate family members and the members of our party had gone to receive him, the tendency of violence to erupt was very high…. “It is true that when injustice becomes a rule, resistance becomes a duty, the consequences of the injustice and resistance erupting is that the tendency of loss of lives and property is very imminent and high.” Senate committee completes report on Amaechi, as Aishat faces opposition from Sokoto APC PDP flays Buhari, APC over Akpabio''s investigation by EFCC PDP flays Buhari, APC over Akpabio''s investigation by EFCC OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY