The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has concluded plans for intensive enrolment data collection of schools in the territory. The move was part of measures to reduce the number of out of school children, The FCTA, through its Education Management Information Service (EMIS) Committee of the FCT Education Secretariat will as soon as schools resume commence the 2018/2019 census exercise in all schools across the territory. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The exercise is expected to produce credible and valid data that could be used for the formulation of policies in the FCT, thereby enhancing quality of education. The Director of Administration and Finance (DAF), FCT Education Secretariat, Malam Umar Marafa, said the exercise would boost proper planning to ensure quality educational deliverables in the territory. Marafa, who was represented by Ahmed Isah, noted that it was imperative to make arrangement for proper data collection of schools in the territory. Also speaking, the Director, Department of Policy, Planning, Research and Statistics (DPPR&S), Dr. Mohammed Sanni Ladan, explained that the EMIS system is a software that stored information, processes, and then analyses it, which all the relevant departments and agencies must have. According to him, although some schools have the software, as soon as the forthcoming academic session commences, enumerators will go down to the schools for the exercise. The Deputy Director and Head of EMIS, Stephen Oyelola, decried that in the past, there was the problem of data gathering, as private schools were not cooperating while some unregistered schools were not participating. He said enumerators have been selected from all the agencies, including the zonal officers for private schools as well at from the local government areas to participate in the exercise, and they have been duly educated and are ready. “We are commencing it at the start of the next (2018/2019) academic session, and this year the private and public schools have been separated,” he stated.  FCTA accredits 140 additional schools, threatens erring ones FCTA approves 572 schools for operations FCTA orders investigation into Kuje school child abuse allegation