Data from National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) put unemployment rate in Nigeria at 23.1 per cent, being the highest rate recorded in the country in the last 10 years. The data showed that the number of people who are able and willing to work in Nigeria increased from 75.94 million in third quarter of 2015 to 80.66 million in third quarter of 2016 to 85.1 million in third quarter of 2017 and then to 90.5 million in third quarter of 2018. While the number of persons in the labour force kept on ballooning, jobs grew at a slower pace, creating an unemployment crisis of roughly 21 million Nigerians as at 2018, being the highest number in Nigeria’s history. A 2018 report by the World Poverty Clock described Nigeria as overtaking India to becoming the country with the most extreme poor people in the world, a development which the Daily Trust Board of Economists, chaired by Professor Ode Ojowu, recently advised President Buhari to reverse in 2019. At 86.9 million, the number of people living in extreme poverty represents nearly 50 per cent of the estimated population of 190 million people in Nigeria. With annual population growth rate of 2.7 per cent that is greater than the GDP growth rate of 1.94 per cent, the Managing Director of the Bank of Industry (BOI), Mr. Olukayode Pitan, recently expressed fear that the number of people living in extreme poverty will increase in the coming years. Worthy of note is that the Federal Government has introduced numerous interventions that isolate some of the root causes to poverty and unemployment in the country. Some of the interventions include the provision of a N10 billion North-East Development Fund to help the development of the North-East, and the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) that provides farm inputs in kind and cash to smallholder farmers to boost yield and production. Similarly, the Government Economic Empowerment Programme (GEEP) that provides interest free loans to micro-enterprises (market women, artisans, traders) across the country is also a measure to address poverty. Speaking on the efforts of the government, the BOI boss said, “these interventions by the Federal Government have indeed addressed some of the unemployment and poverty challenges in Nigeria.” He noted that given the massive need and to ensure continuity and sustainability, there is urgent need to scale-up these interventions through increased participation and support by other stakeholders such as Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), International Donor Organisations, multi-lateral agencies and other private sector institutions. “The challenge of building a resilient society is not only a government affair. All other stakeholders must participate and work together to provide solutions and resources to effectively address this common challenge we all face,” he said. Recently, President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, revealed that the Nigerian government was planning to establish the Nigeria Innovation Fund, to which AfDB has committed $500 million to promote entrepreneurship and reduce unemployment. “We have committed to put in $500 million to support young, creative entrepreneurs that have great ideas. I am excited about what we are doing but I am going to say something that is linked to the education in Nigeria and other African countries. We are training people for the jobs of the past,” Adesina said during a recent visit to Media Trust head office in Abuja. He said the education system in Nigeria is not training young people for the jobs of the future. “As a result, they will get certificates but they won’t get jobs. Today, a study done by Boston and Consulting Group shows that one-third of all the jobs available today, the skills that people will have for them tomorrow, will be gone. The skills for tomorrow are very different,” he said. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, recently told a conference in Abuja that the vision for Nigeria, as outlined by President Muhammadu Buhari at the beginning of this government, is to lift 100 million people out of poverty within the next 10-year period. She told the participants that this would only be possible through investment and financing for development. “We must move beyond merely donating money to people to investing in people and their communities,” she said. Proffering solutions, the minister said the solution was looking at ways of attracting financing from the private sector for development in order to ensure sustainable job creation for young people all over the country. “We would therefore like to encourage investment in resilient communities by the private sector and particularly by financial institutions. It is also notable that Nigeria and Nigerian initiatives must go to scale. This is no time for pilot programmes but as we move from reaching thousands of people to millions, we can only achieve this jointly by going to scale,” she said. She encouraged the banking sector to take their initiatives a step further by crowding in financing and leveraging upon the initiatives to achieve results. Development partners were urged to support investment in resilient communities by employing existing de-risking mechanisms and instruments in order to further the type of development that Nigeria truly needs: helping Nigerians to help themselves. “Building local capacity and working hand in hand with Nigerians led initiatives is what will enable true economic growth and financial stability,” the minister said. Our World Poverty Clock rating Minimum wage will lead to inflation - Sekibo Nigeria’s labour force increases to 85m in Q3 - NBS OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY