A former Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Dr. Harold Demuren, yesterday, advocated for greater synergy between the regulatory authority and the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) to improve aviation safety. He said though the regulatory authority and AIB have one thing in common, which is to promote safety and prevent accidents, there has been so much competition between them. Demuren, who spoke at the quarterly business breakfast meeting (BBM) of the Aviation Safety Roundtable Initiative (ASRTI) with theme,  ‘Advantage of Implementing AIB Recommendations’, said there is no need for competition as the duo must work together through effective communication. But the current DG of NCAA, Capt. Muhtar Usman, said the regulatory authority was not in competition with AIB over its safety recommendations, noting that the authority has a team in place which sits from time to time to implement the AIB safety recommendations. Daily Trust reports that there is a raging issue between AIB and NCAA over safety recommendations following a comment recently attributed to the NCAA to the effect that some AIB recommendations were not implementable. AIB is the bureau that investigates serious incidents and accidents in the aviation industry and issues recommendations to NCAA,  airlines and other service providers. But the former DG popularly referred to as a ‘super regulator’, explained that though AIB has no legal authority to enforce the implementation of its recommendations, it must work with NCAA in that regard, noting  that there should be no room for competition. The DG of NCAA, Capt. Usman, represented by the National Coordinator of the State Safety Programme (SSP), Dr. Iteke Ifeanyi, said NCAA coordinates effectively with AIB in implementing safety recommendations. He said the regulatory authority usually developed safety actions with respect to safety recommendations made by the accident bureau. “We don’t only look at the safety recommendations. We look at the analyses and conclusions to form our safety actions,” he said. But, Engr. Akin Olateru, the Commissioner, AIB, in his presentation said the agencies could not sit down together to come out with safety recommendations in case of an incident or accident. Olateru, represented by the General Manager, Public Affairs, Tunji Oketunbi, declared that in case of an incident or accident, everyone including NCAA was a suspect. He, however, said the relationship between NCAA and AIB was over 70 per cent robust, stressing that AIB could only send out safety recommendations to the industry, while the onus of implementation lay on NCAA.  NCAA implements 29 out of 37 safety recommendations Ex-AIB boss wades into Air Peace compliance issue As Air Peace hits international stage OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY