The 32nd anniversary of Katsina State has stirred agitation for power shift in the state with Daura Senatorial zone, where President Muhammadu Buhari hails from, demanding for the zoning of the governorship position to it come 2023. Created from old Kaduna State, Katsina State will clock 32 years since it was carved out on September 23, 1987. In an advertorial they signed, Ahmed Ahidjo Wali and Sada Bujawa, said Daura zone has been denied the opportunity to govern the state despite their sacrifices and selfless services since its creation 32 years ago. They appealed to all political stakeholders in the state to, on the principles of fairness, equity and justice, consider their plight by supporting the zoning of the gubernatorial seat to Daura zone in 2023. However, the call has not gone down well with the two other zones, Katsina and Funtua (Karaduwa), which describe the agitation as uncalled for. The spokesman of Katsina State Progressive Movement, Mohammed Danjuma, on behalf of Katsina Central zone, said issuing such a statement at a time that governance was just picking up after an election period was wrong and uncalled for. He said Daura zone ought to have been grateful for having a president that will hopefully be on the saddle for eight years, adding that by the time he completes his tenure, the zone will definitely be the choice location in terms of infrastructural development. “They (Daura zone) have President Buhari who is bringing projects like railways, federal polytechnic, University of Transport, NAF Hospital, National firefighters school and so on, what else do they want ? he queried. On his part, a political leader from the southern part of the state, Bala Abubakar, said “it is not wrong for the zone to seek for the position, but they should always bear in mind that no place, in the entire country, has better outing than their zone for having the president and a minister from the area. “For Daura zone to be talking of votes, our zone ( Funtua) gave more than theirs; it is the second in the whole of the federation in terms of number of votes. We are not against them but it is only natural for them to know and understand that competency and qualification should be the watchword not just zoning.” Abubakar said Governor Aminu Bello Masari was supported by all in the state during the 2015 general elections and also in 2019 not because of zoning but solely based on competence and capacity.  Katsina and the agitation for power shift in 2015 ‘Why Shema wants Nashuni to succeed him’ Katsina @30, a dream fulfilled OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY