The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said it has so far arrested 60 persons for internet fraud in Akwa Ibom state. While briefing newsmen on Tuesday, the Zonal Head of EFCC in Uyo, Mr. Garba Dugum, said that since its inception in 2017, it has secured 37 convictions. Dugum, who was represented by the deputy zonal head, Mr Alex Ebbah, said the office has so far received about 20 different cases of internet fraud reported directly by the FBI through the United State Department of Justice. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said EFCC launched an independent raid against the fraudsters in various strategic areas and hideouts when it received the directives from the Acting Executive Chairman of the commission, Ibrahim Magu. He said the commission has gone beyond arrest, investigation, prosecution and conviction of internet fraudsters to prevention of the act by embarking on sensitization programme. He noted that the sensitisation programme would educate youths on the implications and the need to stay away from the crime, adding that the fight against the fraudsters is yielding results. He commended the collaboration with FBI and other International Law Enforcement Agencies in the fight against internet fraudsters, adding that some of the 20 different cases of internet fraud are already under investigation. He mentioned that cases received through Mutual Legal Assistance by other International Law Enforcement Agencies include five from Hong Kong Police, five from Danish and Norwegian Police and four from Israeli Police. Others include: three from Austria,  one from Sweden, one each from Zambia and the Bulgaria. He said the investigations had led to seven arrests, involving $226,578.98, €615,000.00 and £75,140.32 which the fraudsters defrauded their victims. “In furtherance to the acting Chairman’s directive to all the zones, we have independently launched intensive investigative actions against this infamous ‘Yahoo Yahoo Boys’ culminating in various strategic raids and onslaught on their hideouts. “Our effort in this regards have recorded tremendous success which resulted in over 60 arrests, 37 convictions and recovery of a number of exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds of the crimes. “It should be noted that EFCC’s collaboration with the FBI and other international law enforcement agencies in the fight against fraudsters popularly called ‘Yahoo Boys’ who are constituting serious nuisance in the cyber space is yielding results,” he said. Edo: EFCC arrests female cyber fraudster on FBI list, arrests 113 others FBI list: EFCC arrests suspected accomplice for alleged N60m fraud in Ilorin EFCC in Edo nabs female cyber fraudster on FBI list