The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the National Conscience Party (NCP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack all the serving service chiefs and replace them with those with fresh ideas on how to end the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East. The NEC also accused the security agents in the country of conniving with criminals to carry out “their nefarious activities,” adding that Nigerians were losing hope in the government. Addressing newsmen yesterday in Abuja, at the end of the party’s NEC meeting, the party’s National Chairman and former presidential candidate of the party, Dr. Yunusa Tanko, said the security chiefs lacked new ideas to end the security challenges bedeviling the nation. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “NEC demands a complete overhauling of our security operatives. The service chiefs have tried their best. It is time to let them go and put in place new ones with fresh ideas on how to secure and protect the people and the country in general,” he said. Dr. Tanko said the NEC also asked President Buhari to declare a state of emergency on the economy and the agriculture sectors. The NCP Chief explained that Nigerians were waxing in abject poverty and hunger while the government is, allegedly, busy hounding opposition elements in the country. The party called on the government to release unconditionally all political detainees, who were arrested because of their protest against government’s alleged anti-people policies. “NEC notes with great concern the high level of intimidation, harassment, conspiracy, condescending and arrest of any person of opposition political parties.” The party however said while it was in support of revolution through the ballot it was against any form of violent revolution in the country. NCP asks Buhari to sack service chiefs over Boko Haram resurgence 2015: Gani Fawehinmi's party picks Presidential candidate, running mate, vows to unseat Jonathan Nigerians urge service chiefs to end insurgency