The remains of a former President of the Court of Appeal and Galadiman Katsina, Justice Mamman Nasir (retd), were yesterday laid to rest at Kan Tsauni burial ground after a funeral prayer held at his palace. Nasir passed on Saturday afternoon at the age of 90 at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Katsina, where he was receiving medical attention. His body was later conveyed to his hometown in Malumfashi Local Government Area, where he was a district head. The Muslim funeral prayer was attended by hundreds of sympathizers. The late jurist was interred around 6.50pm. Dignitaries that attended the funeral rites for the deceased included the Katsina State deputy governor, Mannir Yakubu, Emir of Katsina Abudulýmumin Kabir Usman, Emir of Daura Faruk Umar, represented by Shamakin Daura Ibrahim Yahaya, and many district heads and traditional title holders from the two emirates.  Daily Trust Sunday reports that The Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumini, couldn’t hold back tears as he cried profusely and had to be whisked away by palace guards. Women and children also lined the streets to pay their last respect to the departed district head. The late Nasir had been on hospital admission for four days at Sarki Dikko amenity ward of the FMC Katsina. In his condolence message, the Katsian State governor, Aminu Masari, ýexpressed sadness over the death of the Galadiman Katsina and district head of Malumfashi, saying Nigeria had lost one of its last standing illustrious sons. In a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, Governor Masari described the late jurist as one of the leading consciences of the nation, who led an exemplary life defined by uncommon patriotism in the tradition of his mentor, the late Premier of Northern Nigeria and Sardaunan Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello. “The late traditional ruler and former jurist, whose professional career peaked as president of the Court of Appeal, was a rare gem, and his death has created a wide leadership chasm that may take a long time to fill. “His death is particularly devastating, coming at a time when our nation, buffeted by many challenges, not least that of insecurity, requires his wise counsel.” Governor Masari called on Nigerians to borrow a leaf from the deceased and lead a life devoted to the service of the people in whatever endeavour they find themselves. The governor also condoled with the immediate family of the former Court of Appeal president and urged them to take consolation in the fact that he lived a fulfilled life, even as he prayed to Allah to forgive him all his shortcomings and make paradise his final resting place.  My father’s wish – Son The son of the late Justice Nasir told Daily Trust on Sunday that his father’s last message was a prayer for Nigeria to work as it was working before. Ibrahim Nasir, a quantity surveyor, told our correspondent that while at his father’s bedside in the hospital, Justice Nasir lamented that Nigerians were suffering but God would bring salvation to all. According to him, the late Nasir “was a loving father who supported us to achieve our set goals and aspirations,” saying that he always wanted them to follow their dreams. A neighbour of the deceased in Malumfashi, Hajiya Ummah, said in the 27 years he reigned as district head, there was never a period the town witnessed any trouble. He prayed for his soul to rest in peace. Justice Nasir served as Northern Nigeria’s Minister of Justice from 1961 to 1966 and as Solicitor-General for the North Central State Government, since 1968. He also served as Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, North Central Government, from 1969 to 1975. In 1956, he was the People Crown Counsel before he rose to the Senior Crown Counsel in 1957. From 1966 to 1967, he was in private legal practice (Mamman Nasir & Co.). He served as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria from 1975 to 1978 and the President of the Federal Court of Appeal from 1978 to 1992 before he ascended to the throne of Galadiman Katsina. Justice Nasir (retd) served as chairman, Investigation of Assets of Northern Nigeria Marketing Board; chairman, Boundary Adjustment Commission; chairman, Committee on Administration of Federal Capital Territory; deputy chairman, Constitutional Conference; chairman, Transition Implementation Committee. He is a member Honourable Society of Lincolns Inn. He was born in July 2, 1929 in Katsina, northern Nigeria. Be proud of your father’s record, Buhari to Nasir’s family President Muhammadu Buhari has described the death of the former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Mamman Nasir, as not only a loss to the judiciary, but also the country at large, because of his remarkable commitment to public service. Reacting to the death of the Galadiman Katsina in a statement by the Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, Buhari recalled that “the late Nasir belonged to a generation of Judges and Justices who perceived public office as an opportunity to offer selfless service to the country and its people.” According to him, Nasir and Judges of their golden age were more interested in leaving untainted record of integrity than accumulation of wealth overnight. “When you look at Nasir’s modest lifestyle and his incredibly humble possessions, you would be disarmed at once by his honesty and patriotism. “While some Nigerians perceive public office as an opportunity to line their pockets, men of Nasir’s character put a higher premium on honest labour than on greedy accumulation of questionable wealth overnight,” Buhari said. He explained that “gentlemen like Mamman Nasir succeeded in protecting their reputation because greed was far removed from their minds” and that “contentment is the secret to a happy life of service to the people.” Buhari said lack of contentment is the devil behind greedy accumulation of wealth at the expense of others, but selfless public servants like Nasir were never motivated by the desire to live above their means. He said, “Nasir’s family should be proud of their father because he built a solid and impeccable record of integrity, which is the greatest asset any individual should leave behind.” The President directed that a government delegation be sent to condole the family, the government and people of Katsina State for the loss of this illustrious member of the Katsina Emirate Council.  Dogara, Orji Kalu, ACF mourn late jurist The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Yakubu Dogara has described the death of Justice Nasir, as a monumental loss to the country. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Turaki Hassan in Abuja, Dogara described Nasir as a legal icon. He said Nasir was a courageous jurist who served the country meritoriously and contributed immensely to the development of the law and independence of the judiciary. The lawmaker said Nasir played major roles in stabilising Nigeria at various times during periods of difficulty and uncertainty. According to Dogara, his contribution to the overall development of Nigeria will be remembered as one of his legacies. The speaker noted that Nasir’s death came at a time his wisdom, wealth of experience and fatherly guidance were most needed, not only in his home state, Katsina, but in Nigeria at large. Also, a former Governor of Abia State and Senator-elect, Abia North Senatorial District, Dr. Orji Kalu has described the passing of Justice Nasir as a big loss to the country. Extolling the virtues of the late Galadiman Katsina, Kalu urged the deceased’s family members to uphold the extra-ordinary virtues of their late patriarch. He acknowledged the contributions of the late elder statesman to nation-building in different capacities. In a condolence message issued by his media office on Saturday, Kalu commiserated with the government and people of Katsina State over the painful loss. Also, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has described late Justice Nasir as an embodiment of hard work, diligence and selflessness, who committed his life to nation-building. The ACF said this in a condolence message to the family of the late jurist, signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mohammed Ibrahim, issued in Kaduna on Saturday. It said that Nigeria and the North in particular have lost a finest elder statesman, bridge builder and a leader who lived a simple and humble life. Mamman Nasir’s last major public outing Committed to the development of his home state, late jurist Mamman Nasir’s last major public outing was to the Presidential Villa, Abuja on April 1 this year to advance the course of Katsina State. The late Galadima of Katsina led the Board of Trustees and Advisory Council of Gidauniyar Jihar Katsina (Katsina State Development Fund) to meet President Muhammadu Buhari. On Buhari’s arrival into the chamber, where the event was held, the BoT members were requested to introduce themselves. The late jurist stood up but thrice, the president requested him to sit down. Rather, he began to read his speech. On the team were 17 other members of the BoT including two women as well as Mallam Mamman Daura, and Dr Umar A. Mutallab. Faint as his voice was, the jurist managed to say the foundation returns gratitude to God and all Nigerians for giving President Buhari the opportunity to serve another term in office. “We are most grateful to almighty Allah for bringing you back for another term in office. Our happiness and gratitude goes to Nigerians for electing you,” he said. Justice Nasir said the foundation also remains grateful for the years the President served as its chairman. Responding, Buhari who identified members of the association by their names, among them was one of his school mates said:  “Thank you for supporting me. I assure you that I will do my best during the second term. We will work for Nigeria and her people.” The President said the crowd that welcomed his campaign train in each state was more than anyone could possibly  “induce”, attributing the turnouts to people’s appreciation of the efforts of his administration. President Buhari noted that he was the chairman of the Fund for 17 years, during which period a lot was done to support education, healthcare and agriculture in the state, especially for those that were less-privileged.  BREAKING: Former Court of Appeal President, Nasir is dead Katsina emirate loses district head Katsina to review traditional rulers’ allowances