Members of the National Assembly usually commercialize their constitutional roles of oversight and investigation of wastes in governance, the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, has said. The ICPC chairmen said by commercialising their constitutional responsibilities, members of the National Assembly lack the moral ground to do the right thing. Delivering a paper titled; ‘The role of the legislature in the war against corruption and graft’ at the last day of the induction course for members of the incoming 9th assembly, he said some legislators also made attempts to amend certain laws because they were under investigation. “Oversight functions have been commercialised, which is why the mechanism hasn’t been effective. It’s often believed that the legislators accept gratifications from the agencies they oversee. They accept foreign travels, trainings, etc from agencies. The legislature is accused of passing the costs to MDAs and of accepting other forms of gratification, eg foreign trips, phoney seminars, etc to look the other way. “The legislature has powers of investigation,  this was very well utilised in the past. But many other times, the power is commercialised. You find out that the investigators become compromised in the process. “We should avoid a situation where because people are being investigated, they come to say they want to change the laws to forestall that. I want to urge the lawmakers not to support that,” he said. The ICPC chairman also challenged members of the National Assembly to make public details of their annual budgets, saying that had been an issue over the years. “There’s no country in the world where the legislature’s budget is up to one percent. But the question is there’s no breakdown for the amount. It is opaque and disproportionate. “If you make the details, it may even lead to the need for more funds. Why would the legislature demand the details of agencies’ budgets without making its own open?” he asked.  ICPC asks National Assembly to make its finances transparent, open ICPC asks National Assembly to make finances transparent Before Senator David Mark steps aside