The Director General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, has said macroeconomic considerations are key in the Federal Government’s Sukuk bond issuance programmes. She said the need to drive financial inclusion and mobilize savings, not just for government but for corporate entities to leverage for investments, are key objectives of government in issuing the ethical bonds. Oniha spoke, yesterday, during a panel discussion at the Sigma Pensions Business Roundtable 2nd Edition held in Abuja. The roundtable had the topic: ‘Navigating the Frontiers of Ethical Investing’. Recall the FG has issued two Sukuk infrastructure bonds and raised N200bn to finance road constructions across the country in two years. In issuing Sukuk, a key strategic objective is financial inclusion, she said, adding that government wants to give everybody an opportunity to be financially included. “Equally important is that we want to be able to mobilize savings from those who have been keeping their monies in their houses because we didn’t have the right product for them. We want to mobilize savings not only for government but for the corporate sector for investment purposes and ultimately growth,” she stated. “It’s almost a myth to say because if it’s an ethical product you will be able to access more funds more cheaply. For us as a sovereign, there is a long-term strategic objective in issuing Sukuk which is why I started with the financial inclusion objective and mobilizing savings. “There are huge macroeconomic considerations which make it absolutely important for us to continue to issue the Sukuk. Otherwise if you look at the transaction cost, it is the same with issuing normal bonds,” she explained further. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sigma Pensions Limited, Mr. Dave Uduanu, in his welcome speech said “despite having a large Muslim population, the Islamic finance industry in Nigeria has tailed growth in the traditional financial sector even as non-interest compliant instruments remain in short supply relative to potential demand.” FG releases N100bn for 28 road projects FBNQUEST Merchant Bank acts as co-financial advisor for FGN SUKUK II Issuance 28 road projects to benefit from 2nd N100bn Sukuk