Justice Saliu Saidu of the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos, has fixed the trial of a businessman, Cajetan Chike Muonagolu, who the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) charged to court with allegedly dealing in adulterated engine oil, for May 20, 2019. Cajetan and his company, Richbon Nigeria Limited, of Plot 242, Oshodi-Apapa expressway, Odolowu bus stop, Lagos, are facing a joint trial over a four-count charge bordering on dealing in adulterated and sub-standard engine oil. He pleaded not guilty and the court admitted him to bail in the sum of N50 million, with two sureties in the like sum. Justice Saidu ordered his remand pending the perfection of his bail conditions, while ruling on his bail application. The SON prosecution team of Babatunde Alajogun and Adeleke Olofindare opposed the bail application on the ground that Muonagolu had committed another offence during the pendency of the case. Alajogun said the accused broke and removed the official seal of SON and evacuated 15,000 cartons of suspected adulterated/sub-standard engine oil. He was also alleged to have assaulted and beaten up SON officials who were on their lawful duties. The court ordered the counsels for the prosecution and defence to visit the warehouse to ascertain the breaking of the seal, or otherwise. The federal government charged the defendants with four counts of production, possession, dealing in and distribution of sub-standard engine oil. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. The defendants are accused of committing the offences at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos-Badagry expressway, Lagos State, between December 12 and 13, 2018. They were also accused of being in possession of 15,000 cartons of adulterated Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brands of engine oil, which they presented as possessing the required quality. SON had recently undertaken a nationwide raid on suspected adulterated and sub-standard lubricants in response to a myriad of consumer complaints and failure of engines occasioned by suspected sub-standard engine oils. The arraignment of Muonagolu and his company, Richbond Nigeria Limited, followed on the heels of other ongoing prosecution of standards infractions in relation to adulterated and sub-standard engine oils in Lagos and other parts of the country. Fake engine oil: Court remands 4 businessmen in prison custody Man docked over attempt to export hard drug 3 INEC staff charged with receiving N179m Diezani bribe