The Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has lauded the Women Food Sellers Association of Nigeria (WFSAN) and Travel Market Partners (TMP)for launching the first Abuja Easter food festival. Mr Abubakar Marafa, an official of the council, who spoke with City News at Eagle Square, Abuja, venue of the festival, yesterday, said he was impressed with the idea. “I think this initiative will strive more in the future because of the commitment shown by the current government in agriculture,” he said. He urged the organizers to ensure more publicity in the next event and invite more stakeholders to participate. The the event, which was declared open by the Head of Service, Mrs Winifred Iya-Ota, on Monday, is aimed at showcasing Nigeria’s culinary diversity and engendering unity among the ethnic groups of the country. The festival, scheduled to end today, brought together  food sellers to promote the Nigerian local cuisine. President of WFSAN, Mrs Funke Tetteh, said “the major aim of the festival was to bring the food sellers together and expand their businesses through the association and promote the home-grown food for consumption. “We are trying to create awareness so that we would be recognised by the government because we want to contribute our own quota to nation building, but at the initial stage, we would like the government to support us in whichever way they can,” she said. Also, president of TMP, Shola Ilupeju,  said “our target is to feed the Nigerian workforce with our Nigerian food and to promote our culture through the festival and we have made a lot of progress. We have 17 different organizations here at this our maiden edition but we have a lot to do in promoting this festival in the eyes of Nigerians,” she added. A participant at the food festival, Mr Aziz Abbas Olayide of Coca Cola, said “the turnout is low and I  encourage the organisers to put more efforts in their subsequent edition of the festival. Though we have sold very well here, we have also given out free drinks to our customers because of the Easter and this festival,” he said.  NAFEST ‘09: All eyes on Minna Group plans food & drinks festival Only non-oil export’s forex will spur Nigeria''s economic growth – NEPC