The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has been called upon to provide relief materials to displaced persons in the Tiv/Jukun crisis in Wukari local government area of Taraba state. The call was made by Chief David Kente, a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Taraba state. He also appealed to other relevant humanitarian organisations to urgently come to the aid of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the area. Chief Kente who spoke with journalists on Monday in Wukari said that the IDPs displaced from their homes in some communities in Wukari council area were currently going through serious hardships. According to him, hundreds of the displaced persons, including women and children, who are currently taking refuge in primary schools within Kente and Wukari are in need of food and medications. He said if the intervention was not made urgently, the IDPs would continue to suffer adding that the situation now may lead to serious humanitarian crisis. Commenting on the crisis, the Chairman of Wukari local government, Mr. Daniel Adi, said that normalcy was gradually returning to the area. He however said that hundreds of displaced persons from the crisis were in dire need of food, water and medical attention. The chairman stated further that the  displaced persons were scattered in Kente, Wukari and neighbouring villages. Mr. Adi said the need of the displaced persons were beyond the capacity of the local government and therefore appealed to the state and federal governments to come to the aid of the displaced persons. Also speaking on the conflict, spoke person of Taraba police command, DSP  David Misal,  said that normalcy was gradually returning to the area. He revealed that attempts by the attackers to invade Wukari town on Sunday night was repelled by a team of security operatives stationed in the area. Taraba violence: APC stalwart, LG boss beg NEMA, FG for relief materials Casualty figure in Taraba Tiv/Jukun clashes rises to 10 Schools, health centres, houses burnt in Tivs/Jukuns crisis