The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Abba Kabir, should have accepted defeat in good faith and submitted to the will of the people as the re-election of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje will stand, Kano State Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, has said. Garba, while reacting to an interview Abba Kabir granted Sunday Trust newspaper in Abuja on the result of the supplementary election that returned Ganduje as governor, said his claim of victory in the poll he lost was a pointer that he was still in shock of defeat. The commissioner, in a statement he issued, said the PDP and its candidate were yet to advance any concrete argument to discredit the election rated as most peaceful. Garba said the “attempt to heat up the polity and create unnecessary tension through their unguarded utterances days before, during and after the election failed and they are now blaming APC for their failure.” He claimed that the results from the March 9 governorship election showed how the PDP and its agents were involved in over voting and thumb printing. He said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had to conduct supplementary election in some polling units in 28 local government areas of the state after the fraud was uncovered. “We have documented evidence on how their agents engaged in over voting, vote buying, vote stuffing, intimidation and harassment of innocent voters. There are some places where if you have to vote, it has to be for the PDP,” the statement also read. He said the claim that the rerun election was marred by violence, maiming and killing of innocent people also could not hold water as there was no documented evidence to that effect except pictures posted by their alleged paid agents on social media platforms taken from ethnic and religious crises that occurred in other states of the federation and beyond. The commissioner assured that Ganduje’s second tenure would be better than his first term as he would consolidate on his achievements, saying that the victory was a reflection of his performance in the last four years.  Kano re-run: PDP will receive shocker of its life – Ganduje UPDATED: How Ganduje won Kano Guber poll — INEC PDP’ll receive shock of its life, says Ganduje