As battle for the leadership of the 9th National Assembly (NASS) gets intense, some Niger Delta youth leaders and stakeholders have called for the return of the incumbent, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara as Speaker of the House of Representatives. Under the aegis of Coalition of Niger-Delta Youth Groups and Stakeholders’ Forum, the group said their resolve to support Dogara was borne from “his outstanding leadership qualities that saw the House remaining well coordinated since 2015 when he assumed the Speakership office.” A member of the youth coalition and prominent opinion leader from the region, Dr. Ufuoma Omakara, at an interactive chat with journalists, said the decision was part of resolutions reached at the special meeting session of leaders of affiliate groups over the weekend. He emphasised that the decision to recommend and support Dogara was informed by the need to sustain the cohesion, stability and sense of purpose exhibited by the legislators in the last dispensation. “For the first time, we have seen a House of Representatives that is well coordinated, diligent and passionately dedicated to service, in such a way that Motions, Bills and Resolutions were treated with dispatch, which has greatly contributed to the enhancement of national stability, development and the advancement of the spirit of unity among Nigerians,” he said. Speaking further, Dr. Omakara said “it is in recognition of the sterling leadership qualities and outstanding contributions of Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara to the nation at large, that we make bold to call for his return as Speaker of the House. “We therefore call on all federal lawmakers in the Green Chamber to return him back as Speaker in order for the nation and Nigerians to continue to tap from his wealth of experience.” According to him, the group would soon unveil strategic plan for a systematic lobby of relevant personalities including federal lawmakers from the oil-rich region to work towards the return of Dogara as the Speaker. Speakership: Youth coalition rejects Gbajabiamila Budget Padding Latest: Dogara, Lasun, Doguwa, Jibrin, others in the eye of the storm Dogara: Using legislative diplomacy for nation building