Senators-elect of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are plotting to repeat the 2015 scenario where one of them emerged as Deputy Senate President despite being in the minority, Daily Trust has learnt. The plot, it was gathered, was for the PDP senators-elect, who are 43 in number, to seek the support of 13 senators-elect of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in order to back one of them to emerge as Senate President against the party’s adopted candidate, Senate Leader Ahmad Lawan. That way, the 13 APC senators-elect would support the PDP to get the seat of the Deputy Senate President same way it happened four years ago, it was further gathered. In 2015, Ike Ekweremadu, a PDP member, emerged as Deputy Senate President following an alliance between some APC senators and their PDP counterparts. The APC so far has 65 seats in the 9th Senate, with the PDP and Young Progressives Party (YPP) having 43 and one respectively, making a total of 109 senators. However, should the PDP succeed in getting the support of 13 APC senators, they would have gotten 56 senators to go ahead with the said plot. It was learnt that two PDP senators who were not ‘too comfortable’ with the plot, leaked the information to some APC senators. Sources said part of the plot was for some of the PDP senators to woo APC senators from Kebbi, Kano, Bauchi, Gombe, Adamawa, Taraba and Ekiti for their support and endorsement of the plan. The ultimate plan, the sources said, was to back a senator from the North East other than Lawan, who was adopted by APC, to emerge as Senate President. In return, the 13 APC senators that would support the plot would be offered rewards, including the chairmanship of choice or juicy committees. Another part of the plot is to bring back the ‘Like Minds’ group that backed Saraki in 2015 to realise the plan. The campaign was to also paint Lawan as somebody answerable to the national leader of APC Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, but that many senators already know that it was mere propaganda. Already, majority of APC senators have declared their readiness to go with the party’s position by adopting Lawan. One of the senators said they believed Lawan should be the one to occupy the seat because of his experience and the fact that he is the current Senate Leader, which should make him Senate President based on international best practices. PDP senators-elect meet over leadership tussle N/East, N/Central battle for senate presidency Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency