A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano state, Abdulmajid Danbilki Commander, has blamed the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahamed Tinubu of using excessive fiat in determining the new leadership of the National Assembly. Commander, who is a staunch supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, alleged that Tinubu was dictating the tune of northern politics and the affairs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under current move to get a set of NASS leadership. In a statement he signed today, Commander said  it was high time for northern politicians to detach themselves from acceding to Tinibu’s dictatorial tendency of making notable northern politicians subservient to his whims and caprices. He alleged that APC had greatly suffered under Tinubu’s capricious design, saying “Tinibu as a politician has forgotten the way and manner the northern part of the country fought some maverick politicians to a stand-still. “Affirming that it would be foolhardy for politicians in the north to play second fiddle in the present democratic dispensation, I wondered why northern politicians should allow Tinubu to dictate the tune of northern politics at the expense of those who had fought tooth and nail in making the APC formidable positing that the rot that had permeated  the party  in the past  as a  result of leadership crisis  could be  partly attributed to his dictatorial  permutations,” he stated. He said northern  politicians would no longer be used as cannon-fodders in promoting the egocentric postulations of certain politicians since they were at an ample liberty to discern what is politically expedient. He pointed out that in an ideal democratic setting, the will of an individual must not be allowed to surpass the collective interest of those having a stake in the polity. Commenting on the present tussle for the leadership of the upper and lower chambers of the National Assembly, the APC chieftain however stated that the will of the majority must be allowed to prevail against the primordial interest of certain individuals stressing that imposing leaders on the two legislative chambers at the instance of Tinibu would be counter-productive. He however stated that northern politicians in both houses of congress, have Senator Ali Ndume as their preferred choice and not Senator Ahmed Lawan with Umar Babu tipped by many in the lower chamber to be the Speaker. He added that zoning the leadership of the two chambers was never encapsulated in the constitution and that the will of the majority should ideally be allowed to take precedence. On the persistent spate of kidnapping on Kaduna-Abuja expressway by some kidnappers, the APC Chieftain called on President Buhari to properly check the methodology of security operations on the high way for grey areas to be tackled. He said that by effecting proper checks of the system, those sabotaging  his effort would be shown the way  out. No cause for alarm over presidency/NASS disgareement — Tinubu On N/Assembly leadership and Tinubu’s gaffe Buhari and Tinubu: An alliance in trouble