In 2017 a young Nigerian BSc Econgraduate of Bayero University Kano, Yusuf Mohammed Awodi, established Classy Trendz Venture which focusses on networking among young CEOs across the country. The Kwara state youth spoke to YOUTHVILLE about his passion of business and network. What influenced you to become an entrepreneur? I decided to become an entrepreneur because of the strong passion I have for creating and adding value to people and the society directly or indirectly through creativity and capacity building. My childhood dream was to become a footballer initially, then to be an army officer. My entrepreneurship dream came during my university days as a result of projecting the future of unemployment rate in Nigeria and my struggle for financial independence right from those days. What was the highest number of participants at an event you organized? Actually I have been into events for long, since school days. Like I mentioned, it actually depends on the nature of the event. There are events we gathered like 3,000 audience and there are some of 500; and yet others with just 200. So I can’t really say until the event type is well specified. Your business brings young CEOs together to exchange ideas; and youth empowerment skill training. How have you managed competition? Business networking, event management and business promotions work hand in hand. However, it has been an open and new market for us especially in the North. It was a new trend, so we were not really competing with any organization because our idea and approach are fresh and daring. The only challenges we faced was introducing new standards and setting/maintaining high standard in the northern part of the country. As for job, our kind of business is flexible and gives us room and time to do other businesses and if possible even get an extra job. So why not? I guess that would be another plus. How do you see yourself at the moment, at age of 25 the CEO of your own business? Actually I see myself as a young hustler struggling to make impact for a better society in the nearest future. My greatest motivation has been the struggle and challenge of being financially independent in our present day society and achievement of big things with little or no resources. We are still growing other parts of ClassyTrendz especially the venture aspect but for now the network is doing great and growing. What advice will you give to young people who are reading this and want a career to become independent? My advice to young entrepreneurs trying to start up any idea or venture is to start now with any little resources at their disposal, because procrastination and expectation that until you have everything big or perfect is bad. No perfect time for any idea. Start small, grow big. Take risk and be positive; be willing to learn and join network of entrepreneurs with like mind of creativity and progress. Even if you make N100 per day, it’s far better than making 0 naira or minus 50 naira that day. Don’t give up, one day you will be glad you started and there’s no failure in business, it’s only lessons. +Positive vibes only always! When 1,000 entrepreneurs came in search of Elumelu’s seeds How start-ups will survive economic hardships - Experts pg 19 SME