The British Airways and Air France have asked the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to grant them one month extension to move their operations to the new Abuja international terminal. FAAN has issued ultimatum to all foreign airlines operating at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja to relocate their operations to the new international terminal on or before March 31. The request by the two airlines sighted by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday addressed to the management of the airport, sought the management’s approval to continue operating at the old terminal until April 30. Mr Sani Mahmud, FAAN’s Regional General Manager (RGM), North Central and Abuja Airport Manager, said that all other airlines had fully complied with directive with exception of Turkish Air, Air France and British Airways. Mahmud said that the British Airways had requested that they be allowed to bring in their IT personnel to carry out check on their connectivity and other installations before relocating to the new terminal. He said that the request has yet to be granted by the management, saying that FAAN had ensured that the terminal was fully ready for all airlines to move in. On Air France, the RGM said the request was also similar to that of British Airways, explaining that the authority had provided all the facilities required for smooth operation of the airlines. He said Turkish Airline had a peculiar case because of their relocation to the new airport it built in Istanbul, Turkey. Mahmud said that the airline had earlier written to inform FAAN that it would commence flight Operations as from April 7 in the new terminal after their relocation to their new airport in Istanbul from April 2. “British Airways and Air France have written to ask for extension of time till end of April to enable them to bring in their experts to check the connectivity but the management has not given the approval. “Turkish should have moved if not for the relocation to their new airport in Istanbul but they will move in very soon. “RwandAir, African World Airlines and Lufthansa have all moved before the March 31 deadline. “The delay is not from us because everything required has been provided, the connectivity, the offices and other facilities are all in place,” he said. Those that have moved are Asky, Ethiopian Airlines, Air Côte d’Ivoire, Air Peace, Lufthansa, Emirates, AWA and RwandAir. FAAN gives BA, Lufthansa others deadline to relocate to new terminal Ethiopian Airlines begins operations from Abuja new international terminal Topsy-turvy story of  Nigeria’s first airport