The Speaker of Kogi State House of Assembly, Prince Matthew Kolawole, has described the candidature of Alhaji Yahaya Bello as the best option for the state in the governorship election scheduled for November 2. The speaker spoke, yesterday, in Lokoja while addressing some youth groups that visited him at the assembly complex. According to him, this will be the first time the state will be blessed with a selfless and detribalised leader; one that is bold enough to confront issues that have been the bane of development in the state. Kolawole said the administration has changed the narrative of governance as the youths were now more empowered with more responsibilities that positioned them not only to be the leaders of tomorrow but occupying leadership roles presently. He said the governor has recorded achievements in various sectors including security, health, education, as well as infrastructure development like roads and schools, amongst others. He said the great successes of the APC in the just concluded general elections in the state where the party won two out of the three senatorial seats, seven out of nine House of Representatives seats and 25 over 25 in the state House of Assembly were not without the concerted efforts of the governor. The speaker said Governor Bello’s election would be a walkover. “There is no gainsaying the monumental achievements of the new administration led by the young and dynamic governor who has ruthlessly dislodged criminals and criminality in the state,” he said. He urged the people of the state to continue to give their support and cooperation to consolidate on the gains so far recorded. Kolawole, who said he was confident that APC will do better in Kogi West Senatorial District, added that efforts were being made to bring on board some prominent politicians from the opposition. Youth group seeks Oshiomhole's intervention over alleged imposition of Senator Adeyemi Kolawole replaces Imam as Kogi speaker Confusion as Kogi assembly declares ex-speaker’s seat vacant