A group of youths from Akwa Ibom State across the senatorial districts under the auspices of the Ibom Future Leaders Forum (IFLF) have passed a vote of confidence on Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio, representing Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District. They said the former two-time governor of the state has touched the lives of the people of the state and also at national level, thus have to be commended for him to do more and not be deterred by distractions. National President of the IFLF, Comrade Emmanuel Johnny, who addresses a press conference yesterday after a meeting of the forum, said Akpabio groomed 90 percent of today’s leaders in the state in bringing about sustainable development in the state and Nigeria just like him. Others at the meeting include Comrade Emmanuel Ibok, Deputy National President; Comrade Success Uko, Coordinator, Uyo Senatorial District; Comrade Kufre Nathaniel, Coordinator, Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District; and Comrade Victor Bassey, Coordinator, Eket Senatorial District. Jonny listed leadership and human capital development, effort in realizing ‘Next Level’ of President Muhammadu Buhari, constituency projects, leadership attitude and conduct, performance in the senate and his selflessness among others as part of the attributes of Akpabio worthy of emulation. While listing Akpabio’s impact at his constituency and beyond, Johnny said the Senator brought many water and other projects thus earning the appellation, Akwa Ibom Senator, and therefore, deserves more support from Akwa Ibom People to continue his good works. “In the history of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio is the topmost passionate leader who sees potentials in young people, thereby grooming, mentoring and developing them to be useful in the society, in which many have become good leaders today. We commend him for his commitment and unalloyed support in ensuring victory for Mr. President in the just concluded Presidential election. “As the National Coordinator of Presidential Support Groups, and South-South Coordinator of Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Akpabio has been a true and sincere supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, and we see him as one of the pillars for the realization of Mr. President’s Next Level Agenda for Nigerians,” Johnny said. Akwa Ibom youth pass vote of confidence on Akpabio Akpabio: APC’s Silver Bullet for South-South Akwa Ibom: Guber aspirants declare intention despite zoning threat