The President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint more women into his cabinet.  He gave the charge on Wednesday in Abuja at the public presentation and thanksgiving service of the newly elected national officers of the Women Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (WOWICAN).  Speaking at the event with the theme: “The Role of Christian Women in the Promotion of Peace and Good Governance in Nigeria”, the CAN leader said God created men and women. God created Adam decided that it was not good for him to live alone and made an able partner for him and that partner was a woman.  “We should appreciate them and create platform for them to excel. It has been proved that women are more intelligent than men. So they should not be relegated to the background. So the President should appoint more women into his cabinet,” Ayokunle said.  He urged the newly elected women leaders to be God fearing, and also to serve the people of the nation with diligence and humility.  “If you serve the women diligently, the women in return will serve you to the end. In all your programmes make sure you carry the women along. Respect every person under your leadership; Don’t forget you were like them before God  made you a leader. What can you give back to God? Always have this at the back of your minds. Be full of humility, never be full of yourself. Pride changes angels into devil. Don’t lack integrity,” he said.  Ayokunle also urged them to be submissive to their husbands even in worship, as their husbands remain the head over them, thus they should never exercise authority over any man.  In her speech, the President WOWICAN, Deaconess Victoria Bola Ihesiulor, charged her colleagues to always look in the direction of Christ as a good example to follow.  She also encouraged the new officers to use their God-given talents and blessings for others and at all times promote religious harmony in the society. Second term: CAN makes 5 requests from Buhari in Villa Second term: CAN congratulates Buhari, advises him on cabinet selection Saboteurs, Politicians in cassock didn’t want us to meet Buhari, CAN President cries