The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has begun the execution of $170 million (N61.149 billion) Abuja Feeding Scheme project that will add five transmission substations in the capital city within 24 months. During the ground breaking ceremony yesterday, the Managing Director/CEO, Mr Usman Gur Mohammed said the scheme which comprises two 330kV substations and three 132kV substations, would solve power supply issues in the Federal Capital territory (FCT). Mohammed said, “This Abuja Transmission Scheme is to solve the transmission problem in Abuja at least in the next 20 years. Currently, Abuja has only two 330kV substations and we are putting additional two; it has five 132kV substations, we adding three.” On the giant strides of TCN in expanding the grid, he said, “Out of the 800 containers stranded in the port, only two have been lost, the other 798 containers are intact and we are removing them from the ports.” Mohammed said TCN saved $25m (about N8.992bn) in the procurement process because the firm insisted that it must be competitive and transparent. Shortly before breaking the ground, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Engr. Louis Edozien said the five substations would add 624 megawatts (MW) of energy wheeling capacity that could be supplied around Abuja. To Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Edozien said “It is the DisCo that must take the role in taking this power and delivering the power to the consumers.” He urged AFD to also invest in distribution section of the power sector assuring that the projects will not fail as it had happened in the past. Managing Director of the project consultancy firm, OskaJo and Partners, Engr. Joseph Uujamhan said three contractors would handle the project. TBEA and Energo Projekt will build the 330kV transmission lines from Lafia in Nasarawa state to New Apo then to Old Apo 132/33KV substation to connect to new substations at Lubge and Kuje in the FCT. Grid Solutions (General Electric) will build two 330kV substations in New Apo and Lugbe with 600MVA transformer, while Sieyuan-Sac will build three 132kV substations in Lokogoma, Kuje and Dawaki (Gwarimpa) area of the FCT. How NDPHC delivered 112 projects in 13yrs to raise electricity transmission TCN signs N61.9bn contract for 4 transmission substations in Abuja TCN signs N62bn contract for 4 transmission substations