The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the promotion of 8,916 senior officers to fill existing vacancies. A statement from the spokesman of the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani yesterday said the promotions were at the 5th Plenary Meeting of the Commission held in Abuja on Tuesday and Wednesday presided over by the Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police. He said three Commissioners of Police were promoted to Assistant Inspectors General of Police. They are Jona Jackson Mava; Olushola Babajide David and Titus Sumba Larmode. He said the acting appointments of two Commissioners of Police were also confirmed. The beneficiaries are; Rudolf Echebi Obe, Works and Danladi B. Lalas, Air Wing. He said 71 Assistant Commissioners of Police were elevated to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners of Police and they include Ogundare D. Emmanuel; Alonge Adebowale; Augustina Nwuka Ogbodo; Ibrahim Abdullahi; Garba Ahmed; Uzuegbu Kanayo; Zubairu Abubakar; Vincent N. Nwajiofor (works), Polycarp Chilaka Dibia and Emeka Frank Mba, the Force Public Relations Officer. He said 102 Chief Superintendents of Police, CSPs, were also promoted to Assistant Commissioners of Police. They include Michael M. Masomene; Egbe Eko Edum; Onyeamu Akaeme Onyeamu; Dauda I. Ayuba; Chinedu C. Ugwu; Moses Gana; Victor Akongtender Bepeh; Aminu Musa; Danjuma Madugu; Promise Chinedu Udeh; Anthony Okon Placio; Ikechukwu E. Nwosu; Okey C. Nwabufo; Ayodeji A. Dagunduro; Kanu Kanu Okoronkwo (works); Agbo B. Usman (forensic); Mustapha A. Rufai. The Commission also promoted four 487 Deputy Superintendents of Police to Superintendents, Ani stated. He said the new Superintendents of Police include Atiku Ibrahim, Personal Assistant to the acting Inspector General of Police; Florence Odewo; Ojo Abraham; Mohammed Idris and Abraham Ogedengbe. He said 1165 Assistant Superintendents of Police, ASPs, were promoted to Deputy Superintendents of Police, DSP, while 7,086 Inspectors were elevated to Assistant Superintendents of Police. He said some of the new DSPs are:  Chinemelum Bartholomew of the Complaints Response Unit, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Jeremiah Zumnan; Adewale Ajibuwa while  Hope Nnah of Abia Command; Saviour Etetim made the list of the newly promoted Inspectors to ASPs. Police commission promotes 6,455 senior officers Police commission return special promotions, approves 6,455 officers PSC promotes 8,916 senior police officers