The Cyber Security Experts Association of Nigeria (CSEAN) has called on the Federal Government to establish a national cybersecurity centre that will be saddled with the responsibility of coordinating and implementing national cybersecurity policy and strategy. The President of CSEAN, Remi Afon, who disclosed this at the “Cyber Secure Nigeria Conference 2019” in Abuja yesterday, added that research and investment in cybersecurity were essential to meeting and responding to growing cybersecurity threats against the country. “To build a resilient cybersecurity defence, the Federal Government must as a matter of urgency establish a national cybersecurity centre that will be saddled with the responsibility of coordinating and implementing the national cybersecurity policy and strategy,” he said. According to him, new cybersecurity regulations were coming out and being adopted to protect personal data around the world. He said this was in response to the ever-changing complex technological landscape. “The European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) puts organisations under stricter obligations to be fairer and more transparent with the way personal data is being handled. The data mining episodes is just the beginning of series of data misuse. Our failure to enact data protection law leaves citizens of Nigeria exposed to data breaches,” he said. Cybercriminals, he said, were stepping up their game and that data breaches were increasingly common and devastating. He said, “While cybercriminals are collaborating, sharing information and providing 24/7 support services in the dark web on various cybercrime activities ranging from malware creation, compromised passwords sale to zero-day vulnerabilities, the government and private sector in Nigeria are working in silos. “To adequately tackle cybercrime in Nigeria, the government must partner and engage with industry and cyber security organisations.” In his speech, the Vice President, Yemi Osibanjo, said the Federal Government had, through the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), stepped up effort towards securing Nigeria’s cyberspace. Represented by the Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shitttu, the vice president also said many agencies had been ensuring that data of Nigerians online were adequately protected. Critical Stakeholders to Brainstorm on Cybersecurity Menace of Internet, mobile phone scammers Nigeria risks $15m to cyber theft by 2020