The Ibadan Electric Distribution Company (IBEDC) yesterday disclosed its intention to restore power supply to Ilesha. This sequel to the state governor, Alhaji  Gboyega  Adetola’s intervention. Recalled that hoodlums had in March this year, besieged the offices of the electricity distribution company in Ilesha, destroyed equipment valued at over N250 million. As a result, IBEDC’s management had vowed never to restore power supply to the community until arrangements are made by the community or state government for the replacement of damaged infrastructures. The company said in a statement signed by the Head of Branding and Corporate Communications, Mrs Angela Olanrewaju, that the decision to return to Ilesha was as a result of intervention meeting hosted by the  Osun State governor, Alhaji  Gboyega  Adetola, and with the Oba’s committee  constituted  by  Ijesaland to facilitate  the  restoration  of  power. In the same vein, the Chief Operating Officer, IBEDC, Mr John Ayodele, said that in response to the appeal from the governor and the people of Ilesha that the company would commence initial preparations required to restore service from next week. Ayodele said IBEDC has committed to send an advance party comprising of its technical and administrative staff to critically assess and see what could be salvaged for gradual restoration of power to the community, stressing that administrative staff would also commence the cleanup and tidying of the office facilities for resumption. Ayodele said along with this was the replacement of some staff in Ilesha and recruitment of qualified indigenes  of  Ilesha  to  ensure  better  service  to  customers  and  engender  confidence  from  the community. “In resolving one of the major issues that led to the crisis, which is metering and estimated billing. IBEDC will within the next few weeks clear the backlog of meters as all customers that paid under the previous metering schemes that show evidence of payment will be metered. Also unmetered customers that are willing to pay can take advantage of the new metering scheme, Meter  Asset  Provider  (MAP), introduced by NERC to bridge the metering gap , as we  have  contracted  seven  vendors under this scheme. This will greatly reduce estimated billing which has been a thorny issue. He noted that IBEDC will also strengthen its community engagements platform and explore strong communication/ feedback mechanisms to encourage customers to report grievances and issues in an amicable way. Ibadan Electric decries loss of N250m equipment to hoodlums Kwara communities lock IBEDC office over six-month outage Electricity official escapes mob attack in Ilorin