Some parts of Katsina State have been taken over by bandits and kidnappers, Governor Aminu Masari told the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu yesterday. “These bandits strike at will, maim at will, destroy lives and property at will,” Masari, who spoke through his deputy Mannir Yakubu, told the police boss. “In other parts of the state, we also have kidnappers who not only take people on the road but in the comfort of their homes,” he added, citing the “unfortunate incidence of the governor’s in-law who was taken in the comfort of her home.” He said the IGP was coming in a period of anxiety and apprehension noting that Katsina State has supported and will continue to support the ongoing ‘Operation Puff Adder’ with funds, logistics and accommodation. He announced a donation of 12 vans to the police. Already, he said, government has met with the eight front-line local government chairmen to keep them abreast and will do whatever possible to see to the final onslaught on the bandits and kidnappers in the state. The eight LGs are Jibia, Batsari, Safana, Dan-Musa, Faskari, Sabuwa, Dandume and Kankara. Some of the LGs share boundaries with Zamfara State, which is under constant attacks from bandits and kidnappers. Earlier, the IGP said he was in the state to look into the security challenges, especially the activities of kidnappers and bandits. He said the police needed information on activities of “these miscreants”. He said the latest strategy of the police is to take the fight to the kidnappers by identifying them, occupying their location and camps. ‘Bandits kill another 5 in Batsari’ Daily Trust reports that the acting IGP was also briefed about another attack by armed bandits on Garin Magaji village in Batsari local government area of Katsina State. The council chairman Mannir Muaazu told the police boss that about ten bandits stormed the village on Tuesday night shooting sporadically while perpetuating the heinous act. He said five people were killed during the attack while 10 were injured. The police boss who visited the local government also heard that the bandits set ablaze many houses and burnt down vehicles. In his remarks, the District Head of Batsari and Sarkin Ruman Katsina, Tukur Rumah, called for the establishment of a mobile police base in the area to avert further attacks on their communities. He described the situation as alarming, adding that it called for concerted efforts to nip it in the bud. The residents believed some of the bandits fleeing the current onslaught against them in Zamfara State might have relocated to Katsina communities, hence the worsening insecurity. Responding to the traditional ruler’s remarks, the IGP said the request for a mobile police base shall be addressed, even as he called on the state government to provide the land for its construction. He ordered the Police Special Forces and other Tactical Units to deal decisively with armed bandits and other violent criminal elements in the state and other parts of the country. Katsina under siege – Masari Free Katsina State of bandits Kidnapping in Katsina spreads to metropolis