Engineer Ibrahim Ali, a former Minister of State, Petroleum Resources and Coordinator of Borno State’s industrialization program, says the PVC pipe factory which will begin to roll out within the week has the capacity to produce Chad’s one year demand in just one month.  What is the Borno PVC pipe factory all about? It is one of the many industries that are embedded in the Borno industrial hub, a dream project of Governor Kashim Shettima. This investment is coming after an extensive and elaborate research into the profitability of PVC pipes and how they are critical in making life less costly and less complicated. Nigeria is a nation that is making a head way in its diversification program and this places emphasis on giving attention to agriculture in order to lessen our dependence on oil. Although there is a number of PVC pipe factories in Nigeria, the one in Borno is the most comprehensive in the country because it is the only one operating six lines of production. What types of pipes are you producing? All types of pipes. In all, we will produce a total of 64 different types of pipes including even conduit, water hose and drips from the six lines. Our target is small and large scale irrigation farming, municipal water supply, boreholes and all manner of endeavors which require pipes to function. When exactly are you rolling out? We are ready to roll out even today because  the complex is ready to run. By the middle of the week, God willing, we intend to test-run the facility and if you wish to witness it, you are welcome. All the six lines have been fine-tuned. The factory is 100% reliant on petrochemical elements and it may interest you to know that we currently procure all out raw materials from  neighboring Chad because even though we have four refineries in Nigeria, none is working at a capacity to supply us. The Kaduna Refinery alone would have been sufficient for all of our needs but because of the lack of production, we are left with no alternative than to source from Chad which is close to us. Do you have any working partnership with the Chadians on the supply of petrochemicals? No, ours is entirely a business concern. We buy directly from them and they supply to us, that’s all. One other interesting thing is that this factory has the capacity to supply PVC pipes for Chad’s one year requirement from just one month of production. In other words, what we produce in just one month can take care of all Chad’s PVC demands for one full year. Of course, the Chadian market is there for us to explore and I can tell you that while we target to fill the gap in Nigeria, we also look at the possibility of taking advantage to export. What about assurances on quality because to be able to stay in business, you need to have worked on quality? We left nothing to chance. As I said earlier, ours is an entirely business concern, out to make profit. We cannot fix a factory as big and as ambitious as this without doing the necessary research from all perspectives. In fact, we will have about the best quality PVC products in the Nigerian market. We have the latest equipment, high quality mix material, the best hands, manpower, the market, commitment and the enabling environment to succeed. Another contributory factor is Governor Kashim Shettima’s sheer courage, political will, his vision and foresight to perceive a good business and his commitment as soon as his conviction is made up. Just take the casing and the pipes for boreholes that we are going to produce, the technology we deploy is such that will produce pipes for all types of boreholes to stand any pressure. What other allied products is the factory involved in, or is it just pipes? Another angle to it is that we have a recycling plant which takes charge of recycling broken pipes to serve same purpose either on irrigation farms or at borehole drilling sites. We are equally producing PVC joints and elbows as well as injection machines to produce round and flat nipples for drips. I hope you get the totality of the picture and transformation as it relates to what impact we are going to make in irrigation farming in particular. We understand that you are also into the production of school furniture. Yes, in the same PVC factory, we will produce very high quality elementary school chairs, tables and desks among others. The material is still petrochemical by-products that are used to produce pipes. The Borno State government and indeed many state governments in Nigeria have prioritized education. In Borno, it is even more paramount in view of the mindless destruction of schools by the Boko Haram insurgency. You are aware that as a result of this, thousands of pupils are out of school and have been roaming the different IDP camps and other temporary places of abode. With a massive turn around in the education sector and provision of infrastructure by the Kashim Shettima administration, it behoves on us to also provide quality compliments and furniture to take care of the massive take-in of displaced and new pupils. Our target to secure patronage from other schools across the country and even beyond is hinged on the superior quality of our products. It is also important to look at the employment this has created for our graduates, skilled and even unskilled young men and women. I would like to add that the over a dozen of industries that have been established by the Kashim Shettima administration, all of which have either been completed or are very close to completion have provided a platform for our emerging high tech and egg headed engineers and other scientists to sharpen their skills and improve their access to credible platform to either work or carry out research to influence our future growth and prosperity.a Nigeria wonder kid Our steel pipe mill will promote Nigeria’s local policy – SCC MD Borno 2019: Sheriff wants to manipulate Buhari, Oshiomhole – Ex-Deputy Governor