Scores of commercial motorcycle riders operating in Lagos metropolis are expected to watch crushing of 2,500 motorcycles also known as Okada by operatives of the Lagos State Task Force. The motorcycles which were seized from their owners in the first quarter of 2019 for allegedly plying unapproved routes in the metropolis. This is even as the agency said it has impounded yet another 109 commercial  motorcycles belonging to the riders at the weekend. It said that the 109 motorcycles were impounded at 2nd Rainbow end of Oshodi-Apapa express-way, Lagos. Chairman of the agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi who stated these yesterday, said that he actually led the team to second Rainbow where a fresh 109 motorcycles were seized at the weekend. Egbeyemi revealed that the enforcement operation was carried out after several warnings were given to the riders plying the route adding that the affected riders were actually advised to desist from operating on restricted routes, particularly on major highways and bridges across the state. He said that the action of the task force was sequel to series of complaints received from the public on illegal and criminal  activities allegedly perpetuated by some armed robbery suspects who disguised themselves as genuine motorcycle operators. “While some of them harass innocent members of the public at various bus-stops, others engage in all sorts of criminal acts by dispossesing passengers of valuables such as phones, jewelleries and bags. Also, motorists held in traffic both in the morning and at night around these areas were not spared” he said. Egbeyemi said that the agency would enforece the massive clampdown on illegal activities of  motorcycle operators who flout the state’s traffic laws. He noted that the enforcement in the second quarter of the year would be vigorously sustained on daily a basis with the full support of other Divisional Police Officers and the Area Commanders across the state. Egbeyemi warned dispatched riders using power bikes (200cc above), to desist from engaging in illegal commercial activities as anyone caught violating State Traffic Laws would be prosecuted. He however, urged various motorcyle riders associations across the state to always educate their members on the implication of operating on any of the 475 restricted routes and the life threatening danger surrounding plying high-ways and bridges. “Over 2500 illegal commercial motorcycles impounded by the agency in the last three months (January to March 2019) would be crushed by the government” he said. Taskforce arrests 10 Gokada riders, impounds 23 bikes Bulldozers demolish structures under bridges, at motor parks Lagos, FCT crackdown on Okada