The family of the Chairman, Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC, Alhaji Mohammed Mahmood, who was kidnapped alongside his daughter Yasmin by unidentified gunmen along the Kaduna-Abuja express-way has raised the sum of N13 million ransom, Daily Trust learnt. This was gathered in an alleged audio recording of phone conversation between the abductee and his relation called Saleh that took place Monday night. Daily Trust reports that Mahmood was abducted alongside his daughter while travelling from Kaduna to Abuja on Monday. During the incident that took place around Katari village, his driver was said to have shot dead. In the audio recording obtained by Daily Trust, the UBEC Chairman urged his family to hurry and gather more money in order to secure their release because time wasn’t on their side. He said, “Saleh, please be hurry, time is not on our side It would take some time before we decide on the collection point, and we have planned to resolve this issue within one hour. Let them go anywhere and get the money within one hour.” But Saleh responded that they were able to raised N13 million and if the kidnappers demanded the money in Dollars, they would have given the ransom money to them. Saleh said: “We are on it and we were able to raised N13 million. The challenge we are having now is night and somebody told me if it would reach in the morning, he would give us N50 million and if they demanded the money in dollars, we would give them this night.” The UBEC Chairman then said that the kidnappers were taking good care of them even though his daughter was wounded on her leg during the operation. He said, “I understand, but if you can get it (money), then go and get it anywhere. We don’t want it to pass one hour, these people are taking good care of us, Yasmin was wounded on her leg, but they are assisting her. Please go anywhere and get the money.” Listen to the audio clip here: UBEC chairman, daughter abducted, driver shot dead UBEC chairman, daughter abducted on Kaduna-Abuja highway Senator Arise kidnapped, abductors demand N80m ransom