The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has said it was not ordered by Supreme Court to pay Bi-Courtney N132bn. A newspaper Wednesday said the Supreme Court had ordered AMCON to pay Bi-Courtney the sum of N132bn. But AMCOM in a statement by Head, Corporate Communications Department, Jude Nwauzor, said the news report did not represent the judgment of the Apex Court. There was never an issue of any liability of AMCON before the Supreme Court, he said. “The decision of the SC never dealt with the merits of the appeal nor the substantive cause resulting in the exparte decision of the Federal High Court. He said the appeal before the Supreme Court was only in respect of the leave granted to AMCON by the Court of Appeal (CA) to appeal as an interested party and for which the Apex court held that the application ought to have been filed in the Federal High Court first before the Court of Appeal. This was the sole issue submitted and determined by the Supreme Court whilst the substantive matter is still with the lower court, he added. “More so the appeal against the judgement of the Federal Government/FAAN who are parties to the substantive cause given rise to the enforcement Order is still pending at the Court of Appeal. The said appeal is strictly between the Federal Government/FAAN and Bi- Courteny and has nothing to do with AMCON. “The whole matter of N132billion is strictly a case between BiCourtney Limited and the Federal Government of Nigeria/FAAN. Bi-Courtney is struggling to tie the matter to their debt obligation in AMCON. The only import of the judgment is that AMCON seeks the leave of the Federal High Court first to appeal the enforcement Order before approaching the Court of Appeal. The net effect of the above is that AMCON was never ordered to pay Bi-Courteny 132billion nor any other amount. AMCON has never been a party to any of the proceedings pending at the court of Appeal’’, the statement said.      Tussle for ownership of MMA2 We didn’t owe AMCON N50 billion, Bi-Courtney insists MMA2: AMCON, FG should pay us N132bn damage  -Bi-Courtney