Wood Etal, a furniture producing firm in Abuja and the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) have graduated 26 trainees who were trained in the art of making furniture during a six months period. Speaking during the graduation yesterday in New Nyanya near Abuja city, the Liaison Officer for NECA Liaison Office in Abuja, Mr Balogun Odunayo said the Technical Skills Development project (TSDP) was a major intervention by NECA and the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) to tackle the scourge of unemployment. He said over 3000 unemployed youths have been empowered to secure employment or set up their businesses. “This will in no doubt contribute to reduction in the level of unemployment in the country,” Odunayo spoke about the Wood Etal’s training. The Managing Director of Wood Etal, Mrs Omololami Ajani said among the 30 participants who registered, 26 went through the training within six months and graduated from which there were two female. She said, “I told them to write the number of those that will continue because it is supposed to be a two year programme and all of them indicated interest.” Mrs Omololami said the firm looks forward to staring a training academy soon to consolidate on the achievement. Faboyede Esther, an accounting graduate said, “We appeal to government to continue the sponsorship of this programme because the six months was exciting and I could stay longer.” Another trainee and public administration graduate, Jibrin Umar said he specialised in Cutting section of the furniture work. “I will love to come back for the second stage so I can reach a proficient stage on my own.” Aliyasau Shuaibu, a forestry technology graduate also spoke well about the training. “I saw things I never saw before and I went to sites to see how the work is done.” Mohammed Suleiman also spent six months in the installation section. The Science Laboratory Technology graduate said, “If I have the means, I want to set up something like this.” ITF trains 30 unemployed youth in Kogi ITF graduates 30 youths in Kogi FG wants 7,200 power trainees recruited in firms