Comrade Issa Aremu is a member of the National Executive Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the General Secretary of National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria. In this interview, Comrade Aremu says every worker needs to save for life after work. He speaks on the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), the Micro Pension Plan and the pension sector in Nigeria. Implementation of the CPS The Contributory Pension Scheme will be 15 years this year. It started in 2004. I’m from the textile industry in the private sector. We started to be part of the contributory pension scheme in 2004. So, we can bear witness that today, the workers in the formal sector are secured in terms of their pension after retirement. Don’t forget that there has been a crisis of compensation in this country. Before the contributory scheme, we used to rely on gratuity, which in most cases were never funded in the public sector and even in the private sector, too. We assumed there was a pool of funds that employers would reserve. Some kept to the agreement, but in most cases, most employers defaulted. But, when the new contributory scheme started, it was a departure. Rates of pension contributions The contributions were initially 7.5 percent for the employer and 7.5 percent for the employee. Today, the rates have changed-8 percent for the workers and 10 percent for the employers. Then, we have a pool of fund. We have about 21 Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) that you can choose from one of them. As a contributor and as an expert in the sector, the scheme has guaranteed regular pension for our members, who have contributed over the years. Of course, we can debate about what they collect and that is why in NLC, we argue for not just minimum pay for those who are working, but minimum pension below which nobody will earn. But, today, it has some regularity of payment for workers who have contributed and are due for retirement. I want to commend the National Pension Commission for this wonderful job at 15 years. The Micro Pension Plan Don’t forget that the large army of workers is in the informal sector and they have been excluded from the scheme. Coming from a textile workers union, we have also unionised tailors across the country and they are in hundreds of thousands in the informal sector. They don’t have regular pay, but they need life after work. This is why the launching of the Micro Pension Scheme (MPP) is extremely very significant because it is going to include a large number of workers who will now think of saving for life after work. For all of us, we will reach a stage in life when the mind will be willing, but the body will be weak. We need to save for life after work. I am excited that PenCom has designed a special scheme for a large army of informal sector workers, which include tailors, transporters, artisans, technicians and a large army of traders. Prospects of Micro Pension Plan This scheme, if it covers all of them, we should be able to cover about 80 million workers because we have a workforce of about 80 million Nigerians. Now, the contributory pension scheme covers about 7 to 8 million workers, mostly organised private sector and the public sector. The total contribution is about 6.7 trillion. This is quite remarkable. It is workers’ funds. Imagine if you bring in additional 75 million workers in the informal sector. That is a huge pool of fund for the workers. It is also available or investments. Need for enlightenment The Micro Pension Plan requires a lot of enlightenment. These are not people who are earning income every month. They earn income everyday and their job is flexible and you need to also have a flexible programme for them. You have to enlighten them on what they need to contribute, what will benefit them and how they will get used to the PFAs. They need a lot of enlightenments. In this sense, you can’t talk about retirement age because you can work it out with them. You need a lot of more engagements. But, better late than never, that 15 years after the Contributory Pension Act came into existence in 2004, we now have an inclusive scheme. Experts express expectations as informal sector gets micro pension plan Textile union hails Buhari on Micro Pension Plan Second World Pension Summit ‘Africa Special’