The Court of Appeal, sitting in Sokoto, has reserved its judgement on a suit challenging the eligibility of candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the last general elections in Zamfara State. The appellant, Alhaji Nasiru Abubakar-Milo, through his Counsel, Mr Chukwuma-Machukwu Ume (SAN) had approached the court to declare him the rightful Chairman of PDP in Zamfara State and recognise his candidates which were wrongly subtituted by INEC. Abubakar-Milo-led executives were earlier recognized by the same court as the rightful leaders of PDP in Zamfara State by setting aside the judgement of the Federal High Court in the state which recognized Alhaji Hassan Nasiha as Zamfara state PDP chairman. Ume argued that the main contention on the matter was the right nomination and submission of candidates preparatory to the 2019 elections as his client’s nominated candidates were said to be wrongfully substituted. He avarred that the judgement of Federal High Court in Gusau which recognised the respondent, Alhaji Hassan Nasiha as Zamfara state PDP chairman was set aside on appeal. He urged the court to exercise its power and enter judgement in favour of the Appellant in recognition of it’s earlier judgment. He prayed the court to recognise his client’s Governorship candidate, Alhaji Ibrahim Shehu and thier reliefs sought. He also urged the court to dismiss the Preliminary Objection raised by Mr Junaidu Aminu, Counsel to Nasiha and the Governorship candidate of PDP at the last election, Alhaji Bello Mattawalle for violating the rules of the court. Mr Nanyan Damfat, Counsel to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr Emmanuel Enoidem, Counsel to PDP have respectively moved their written counter submissions, asking the court to dismiss the entire appeal. The Presiding Judge, Justice Ahmed Belgore, adjourned the judgement on a slated date to be announce later. Zamfara PDP leadership crisis: Appeal court strikes out earlier judgement Zamfara PDP: Appeal Court declines jurisdiction over leadership crisis APC candidates get lifeline in Rivers, hope in Zamfara