Two people yesterday died, while 13 others sustained injuries in five road accidents in various parts of Ogun State. Our correspondent learnt that an accident involving 20 people left one dead, while two others were injured when when a truck marked KMC 13 XC and a Toyota bus with registration number WMK 160 XA crashed near the Total filling station on the Lagos- Ibadan expressway. A report of the Day 5 Easter Special Patrol Operations by the state command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), said all the accidents occurred on Sunday. According to the report made available to Daily Trust by Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, the second and fifth accidents recorded two deaths, while others recorded injuries. Oladele hinted that an officer of the FRSC was hit by a driver while on duty, but the suspect was eventually overpowered and arrested. He also disclosed that nine vehicles were apprehended “for driving against traffic and the drivers were issued notice of offence ticket for dangerous driving with a fine of N50,000 and the vehicles also impounded at the FRSC base.” Oladele said, “An officer of the Corps, while enforcing traffic regulations on the Lagos-Ibadan  expressway around Mowe, was yesterday hit by a reckless driver of a Mazda bus marked KTU 485 XQ who was driving against traffic on the  Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. “The vehicle was arrested although the driver immediately ran away but was later arrested. The  injured officer was taken to the hospital for medical treatment and is in stable condition. The vehicle was also impounded and deposited at the FRSC base. “In  another development on the Abeokuta-Ifo-Lagos expressway, attempts by some security operatives to arrest some suspected criminals led to a breach in security which impeded traffic on the expressway around Ifo. The situation was eventually contained by armed security operatives and traffic restored.” Multiple accidents kill 4, injure others in Ogun 2 die in auto-crash on  Sallah day Road accidents kill 327,  injure 372 in 3 months