The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State has rejected the law passed by the House of Assembly yesterday which approves life pension for all former speakers, deputy speakers and members of the assembly, describing it as self-serving. The state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo, in a statement in Yenagoa, called on Gov. Seriake Dickson to reject assent to the bill sponsored by the Leader of the house, Dr. Peter Akpe, which was passed into law by members during emergency sitting yesterday. According to the law, when it is finally signed by Gov. Dickson, former speakers will earn N500,000 per month, while deputy speakers and members will earn N200,000 and N100,000 respectively, as their monthly pension. According to APC, “A planned law being pushed by the House of Assembly prescribing monthly post-service life pension of between N0.1m and N0.5m for members of the assembly is a strange idea to governance in our state. “APC Bayelsa completely rejects this life pension bill for members of the assembly, we see the bill as unjust, ungodly and self-serving. “It is unsympathetic for members of the House of Assembly to seek to enhance their own lives at the expense of the vast majority of Bayelsa people living in pain and penury, the bill is an unspeakable crime against our people. “APC as a party, has been at the forefront of effort to enthrone a regime of better life for the people of Bayelsa State. And we have led a robust opposition to the current system of anti-people governance in the state for close to eight years. “Regarding this latest move by the House of Assembly, we again say that the idea is avaricious, wicked and insensitive. By proposing such a law, the lawmakers have merely portrayed themselves as a people who feel no concern for the feelings of their suffering constituents. They have once again confirmed that they are in cahoots with the executive in the serial impoverishment of the people of Bayelsa State. “We advise the legislature to withdraw the obnoxious pension bill and avoid the appalling crime against the people of Bayelsa State,” the statement said.  17 Akpabio’s  rating after his controversial pension 20 govs, deputies to get billions as severance pay