Travelex Nigeria and the Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) have agreed to enter into strategic partnership that will enable BDCs access over $20 billion annual Diaspora remittances into Nigeria. ABCON President Alhaji (Dr.) Aminu Gwadabe disclosed this at a one-day sensitization programme organized for BDCs by Travelex Nigeria and Travelex UK. He said Travelex and ABCON were reviewing the possibility of ABCON riding on the Travelex high-tech for BDCs to become direct agents of International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs). He said the digitization of BDCs’ operations through the launch of ABCON Live Run Automation Portal which has the backing of the CBN showed the BDCs’ readiness and commitment to full digitization of their operations to provide seamless services to forex end-users and become direct agents of IMTOs. Gwadabe said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) captured only six per cent of the Diaspora remittances and the rest went under the counter without a trace. He said riding on Travelex’s high-tech will enable the BDCs address the reoccurring complaints of poor infrastructure which has kept the operators away from accessing the Diaspora remittances for years. Gwadabe, who spoke on the theme ‘ABCON’s Plans and Proposals for Strengthening and Improving the Foreign Exchange Market vis-à-vis the BDC Sub-sector in the Economy’, said the BDC operators are obligated by law to render daily, monthly and annual returns to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He said the daily returns known as Daily Transaction Returns (DTR) gave details of the total sales made for the day by the BDC and came in as DTR 202, DTR 217, DTR 305 and DTR 315. The DTR 217 return gives the information of the customers of whom the forex was sold to; information like, name, international passport number, Bank Verification Number, address, TIN number, email address among others while DTR 305 provides details of the customers as well their destination and reason for the purchase of forex. The total amount of forex sold to them is also mentioned with the transaction date. According to Gwadabe, DTR 315 gives the BDCs’ opening balance, amount purchased in forex, the equivalent in naira and the rate of purchase, amount sold in forex, the equivalent in naira and the selling rate as well as the closing balance. “The Monthly Transaction Returns (MTR), also known as the MTR returns, is a compilation of the daily returns and it is rendered to the Trade and Exchange Department. It also comes in four parts – MTR202, MTR217, MTR 305 and MTR 315. It is pertinent to note that these returns as described above are rendered in soft copy (electronically) and hardcopy to the apex bank,” Gwadabe stated.  IMTOs: We are still discussing with CBN - Gwadabe BVN for Forex leads to naira depreciation – ABCON BDCs back CBN, says allegation of exchange rate racketeering uncharitable