The Federal Government has handed over gully erosion control and road improvement projects executed at the Army Post Service Estate in Kurudu, Abuja, through the Ecological Fund Office (EFO) to the Army and residents of the communities. At the official handover ceremony, President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by minister of Communication, Dr Adebayo Shittu, said the projects were the Federal Government’s ecological intervention projects for the 4th quarter 2017 and 2nd quarter 2018 approved by the president. Shittu said the projects are expected to check flooding, gully erosion menace and improve environmental hygiene and wellbeing of residents of the estates and environs. “The age-long problem of gully erosion and flooding and improper disposal of solid waste in this part of the country cannot be overemphasised. I have no doubt in my mind that Federal Government’s intervention will bring a huge relief,” he said. He urged the communities to cherish the projects by preventing indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the drainage channels, saying, it is the responsibility of the communities to own and maintain the projects to ensure their sustainability. Earlier, the permanent secretary of EFO, Dr Habiba Lawal, said the project was initiated through requests for urgent intervention forwarded to EFO  by the chairman of AMAC and Army Post Housing Residents Association in order to arrest the erosion menace, improve the access road as well as remove the eyesore caused by heaps of solid waste and to avoid further environmental pollution. She said the resources which the Federal Government has committed to the request must not be wasted, adding that the cleared dump site be used for development activity and not left vacant to avoid further dumping of waste. In his response, Major General Mahe Bashir commended government for completing the road, saying they had been yearning for the project for a long time. He said they no longer have difficulty in movement and have also witnessed influx of people to the estate. ... Commissions Abaji gully erosion control project FCT minister says N263m erosion control projects to ease movement FG approves ecological fund projects