A forum of former members of the House of Representatives of All Progressives Congress (APC) has advised the leadership of the ruling party to zone the position of Speaker of the lower chamber of the National Assembly to North Central geo-political zone. The forum gave the advice at the weekend in Abuja at a press conference attended by its interim chairman, Adeh Lumumba, Idris Yahuza Yakubu, Hon. Peter Biye Gumtha, Hassan Tonga, and Bello Shugaba. Yakubu, who addressed journalists on behalf of the forum, said the APC could not afford to make the mistake again by leaving the choice of those to assume leadership positions in the National Assembly to chance. While explaining the reason why the APC needed to act with tact over the leadership of the ninth legislature, he said the party must step forward to provide political direction to its elected members at the National Assembly by zoning all the leadership positions to the specific zones and where possible states. The forum said since the Senate presidency had been zoned to the North East, the party should consider similar action in respect of all other leadership positions, especially the presiding officers of the two chambers. He said, “Our considered opinion is that the deputy Senate presidency be zoned to the South East/South South, the speaker to the North Central and the deputy speakership to the South South/South West. “This (zoning), we believe, will douse the unnecessary tension being generated in the bid by individual members from the different geopolitical divides of the country to aspire to those positions and avoid further digging of trenches which the party cannot afford to allow at this stage. “It is high time the party took a decision on this to make its stand known to the members of the party on time so as to prevent a repeat of the 2015 scenario where it was unable to stop vested interests that had gone too far in their campaigns by the time the party decided to step in. “If the varied interests are not streamlined on time and individuals are allowed to take hard line positions, it will be difficult for the party to make them reverse without causing further frictions.” 'Why APC should zone speaker to Northcentral' Presidency yet to decide on N/Assembly leadership positions National Assembly  leadership: Will APC reverse position on zoning?