The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) must do everything within its power to field only one candidate for the Senate president, one of the party’s senators-elect, Prince Adedayo Adeyeye, has said. Adeyeye, who defeated the current Minority Leader Biodun Olujimi for Ekiti South Senatorial District, said he believed the party has the capacity to bring its members together to face the Senate presidency as one big family. He told journalists in Abuja that Nigerians gave APC the majority of seats in the parliament and they expect that the party would automatically form the leadership of the National Assembly without hassle. Adeyeye, a former minister and ex-PDP spokesman, said though every senator has the right to contest for the seat, it would be good if all APC senators came together and agreed among themselves to elect one of their own. While the APC has adopted Senate Leader Ahmad Lawan from Yobe State for the position, Sen Mohammed Ali Ndume from Borno State has insisted on contesting even as Mohammed Danjuma Goje (Gombe) is as rumoured to be eyeing the seat. But Adeyeye said: “My party should do everything possible within its powers not to allow PDP to take advantage of the situation by presenting only one candidate for Senate president on the floor of the Senate on the day of inauguration. “The two ranking senators have the right to say they want to be Senate president as long as they are APC members, more so when the position has been zoned to their area. “However, I think we can always find a compromise. It is a matter of give and take. I think the leadership of the party in the country should do well to assuage the feelings of those who might not have been favoured in the selection process by inviting them and letting them see reason the interest of the party is more important than individual interests. “When we fight for and protect the collective interests, individual privileges and interests can still be met,” he said. Asked about the possibility of PDP forming an alliance with some APC members and snatching the seat of Deputy Senate President, Adeyeye said: “Such situation is not within the control of any person. “However, I do not expect a person contesting the seat of the Senate President to make a member of the opposition party his deputy in order to win the election. That would be a total betrayal. I expect that the party with the majority seats would produce the presiding officers and the principal officers meant for the ruling party. “That has been the situation in Nigeria up till 2015 when have the aberration. It is high time we put a stop to such an unholy collaboration when we would have a Senate president from the ruling party having a deputy from the minority party. What is currently happening in the eighth Senate, temporarily halted the democratic tradition we were developing but we are trying to resuscitate it.”  N/East, N/Central battle for senate presidency Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency We’ll not stop opposing Saraki unless...- Sen Hunkuyi