The Borno Elders Forum (BEF), yesterday, denied endorsing Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) for the presidency of the 9th Senate. The clarification came less than 24 hours after Gov. Kashim Shettima had said the people of Borno would rally round the Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe), who was picked by the leadership of the APC for the senate presidency. Secretary of BEF, Dr. Bulama Mali Gubio, said the clarification became necessary in view of repeated media reports that prompted diverse reactions and enquiries from citizens of the state. Dr, gubio said the forum had ignored an earlier news report last week claiming Borno elders had endorsed Ndume, but with the second report this week, the forum became concerned. According to him, “First of all, the Borno Elders Forum holds distinguished Sen. Mohammed Ali Ndume in very high esteem as an accomplished son of Borno State. “However, the forum will want to issue clarification to forestall any more confusion. Last week, there were media reports claiming that Borno elders had endorsed the aspiration of Sen. Ndume for the presidency of the 9th Senate. When we saw that report, we felt there was no need to respond to it since Ndume is a son of Borno, and like other sons and daughters, he is entitled to the support of Borno elders. “To our surprise, this week, we saw another round of media reports claiming that Borno elders have for the second time endorsed Ndume’s aspiration. Although the reports bear the names of other people in the state, it is, however, public knowledge that whenever the phrase ‘Borno Elders’ is mentioned, what immediately comes to mind is the Borno Elders Forum which has gained prominence as a pressure group that promotes and defends the interest of Borno sons and daughters,” Dr. Gubio said. “The forum has people who are familiar with politics and we are aware that citizens of Borno State have diverse and even conflicting aspirations for principal offices at the 9th Senate. For instance, we are aware that one of our sons from Biu, Hon. Betara Aliyu, is aspiring to become Speaker of the House of Representatives. If people assume that Borno elders have endorsed Ndume, it is like saying we are opposed to Betara’s aspiration because it will be politically foolish to endorse two sons for the senate presidency and speakership of house of reps at the same time. We also know that some of our sons have open and quiet aspirations. “In addition to that, in our political history, Borno and Yobe states are one and the same. Yobe was carved out of Borno in 1991. Majority of Yobe leaders have houses in Maiduguri. Yes, sons and daughters of Borno and Yobe have the legitimate right to pursue their political aspirations, but we, elders of Borno and Yobe, normally do not come out publicly to endorse anyone because whatever comes to Borno is celebrated by the people of Yobe and whatever comes to Yobe is celebrated by us in Borno. We don’t oppose each other in public. It is against our tradition as elders of Borno and Yobe states to oppose our sons. “We support all of them or we keep silent. I will call on whoever is using the name of Borno elders to please understand our history and promote our peace and unity,” Dr. Gubio added. Borno elders ‎deny endorsing Ndume for Senate presidency My ordeal at Maiduguri Airport – Sen. Ndume Borno leaders want Ndume as Senate president