The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Lagos said yesterday it is ready for the conduct of supplementary election for Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency.   Our correspondent reports that the election for the House of Representatives seat conducted on February 23, 2019 was declared inconclusive because the margin of lead between the leading candidate and the first runner-up was less than the number of cancelled votes.   Spokesman of INEC, Mr. Femi Akinbiyi told Daily Trust on Saturday that the commission is ready for the exercise.  He said INEC had on Thursday held a meeting of the inter-agency consultative committee on election security ahead of the election.   Akinbiyi disclosed that electoral materials were yesterday moved from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to the local government.   “As I am talking to you, preparation is in top gear. The security agencies have assured the people of the area of their safety. All the materials needed for the election have been delivered at the local government”, he said.   It would be recalled that INEC in the first election cancelled the exercise in 71 polling units as a result of violence and over voting in the affected areas.   Incumbent Rep Rita Orji of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) insisted she defeated her arch-rival, Hon. Kolawole Taiwo of the All Progressives Congress (APC).   But the supplementary poll would hold in 71 polling units and 18 voting points with a total number of 43,660 registered voters.   The affected Registration Areas to include: Awodi-Ora, RA 02 with 3 Polling units; Wilmer, RA 03, with 6 polling units; Olodi, RA 04 with 1 polling unit; Tolu, RA 05 with 27 polling units; Ojo Road, RA 07 with 2 polling units; Alaba – Oro, RA 09 with two polling units; Mosafejo, RA 10 with 18 polling units; Temidire, 2 RA 11 with 12 polling units.   According to INEC spokesman, the poll would open between 8:00a.m. and 2:00 p. m. on the election day. He added that only registered voters would be allowed to vote. Reps: Lagos supplementary poll holds April Polls' shift: INEC retrieves sensitive materials from LGs to CBN in Lagos INEC fixes April 27 for supplementary poll for Lagos Federal Constituency