President Muhammadu Buhari has said that he would like to remind the parents of the school girls of Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State that he has still not forgotten their daughters, who were kidnapped from their dormitory five years ago (April 14, 2014). Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said Buhari promised the parents of the girls when he met them, at the beginning of his first term as president, that he would bring their daughters home. “He is aware that this promise he made is the main reason the people of Chibok voted overwhelmingly for him in the February elections, and although his government has so far succeeded in bringing back 107 of the girls, the President will not rest until the remaining are reunited with their families. “President Buhari assures the parents that his administration is still on the matter,” he said. He said diverse efforts were being intensified to secure the release of the Chibok Girls, along with all hostages in Boko Haram captivity, including Leah Sharibu, who was kidnapped from her school, Science Secondary School, Dapchi, Yobe State, on February 19, 2018. On Leah Sharibu’s abduction, he said the interlocutors have reported encouraging progress so far. “The report reaching us says her return to her family has unfortunately been hindered by the fear of the militants. “They worry that heavy military presence in areas where they previously moved about freely could affect their safety after they return her to the government. “At the same time, the military cannot jeopardise the security of the entire north-eastern region by halting their operations to accommodate Boko Haram’s fears. “Leah Sharibu will be reunited with her family as soon as any conclusions are reached on a number of options being considered for her safe transportation,” he said. He said the success of the Nigerian military in subduing Boko Haram was evidenced by the large numbers of militants, who have surrendered recently, especially in neighbouring Cameroon and Niger. He said a similar mass surrender of militants is expected to happen soon in Nigeria. We want to hear from Buhari — Chibok parents 57 Chibok girls seen in Cameroon – Parents Chibok parents want Buhari's visit