Ogochukwu Maduako is an Agricultural waste recycler and a business development expert and has worked in Nigeria’s agricultural and oil and gas sector. In her commitment to the Sustainable development Goals (SDGs), she began recycling eggshells. She speaks about finding a gold mine in them and launching the company, Ingenious Farm, (iFarm) in 2017 as a result.  Daily Trust: What exactly is it you do with waste? Ogochukwu Maduako: We use repurpose daily agricultural waste to create value from them by turning them into bio fertilizers to produce more healthy crops and livestock. So far, we have been able to produce 1500tonnes of fertilizers and sold them to about 50 agricultural companies across Nigeria. Our work has also been recognized and has won various awards as one of the most innovative companies in the industry. DT: How did you get into agriculture? Maduako: I have a Bachelors in Agricultural Economics & Extension and M.Sc. in International Economics and Finance. I decided t practice what I studied in school. I am committed to contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals and through my work and have advocated for these goals. I ensure that today’s youths the importance of being a socially responsible citizen and that they can still contribute to reducing poverty, protecting our people and our environment through their everyday activities. DT: Please tell us about recycling eggshells? Maduako: Eggshells are waste generated from the poultry sector (hatcheries) and from day to day consumption of eggs. Most people are quick to dispose of eggshells, after consuming its nutritious content, because of its stench odor when kept for a while. They are unaware that its shell is a multipurpose goldmine. Having a knowledge of its many importance in different sectors like the cosmetics industry, where it is used for making body care products, pharmaceutical industry for medicine production, paint industry as a pigment, the agricultural sector as a good source of calcium supplement. Also, in our homes where it is used as a scouring powder for washing pot, sinks, bathtubs and all that. I decided to give a second lease of life to this agricultural gold by creating a sustainable alternative via recycling. DT: What prompted you to start doing it? Maduako: It has been one year and four months of recycling eggshells. Ninety percent of the people who come in contact with our website, social media platform or those who actually see us recycle eggshells, are always surprised by the fact that eggshells can be reused. While the remaining 10 percent have the basic knowledge from Home Economics of making eggshells into scouring powder. They are however, still eager to know more of its benefits. DT: Where do you get your supplies of egg shells from and do you have to pay for them? Maduako: Eggs are consumed every day and everywhere, but the bulk of our recycled eggshells are gathered from bakeries, hatcheries, confectionaries, Indomie and egg spots. Most times I don’t get to pay for them. I only tip those helping to gather them together. DT: Are you looking to expand this beyond Port Harcourt? Maduako: Yes. I look forward to having different drop-off points in different states being that eggs are consumed in all parts of Nigeria. So, yes, I do look forward to expansion beyond Port Harcourt. DT: What else do you recycle? Maduako: There is a lot of agricultural waste to be recycled but I chose to focus on the waste generated from the poultry sector for now. DT: What’s has been the major challenge with recycling eggshells and how have you dealt with it? Maduako: The major challenge I face is transportation. It is quite challenging going by to pick up eggshells every day from about 25 posts, but the work must be done. In other to cut cost of transportation, I constructed a tricycle to aid in picking up from some areas that aren’t far from our mini processing site. DT: Do you work alone and are you able to mentor people to follow in your footsteps? Maduako: No, I don’t work alone. I have my team that has been very supportive. I call them the best weapon in my arsenal. The most benefit for me is the ability to inspire other youths to venture into the agricultural sector. DT: What next from here? Maduako: My mission is to change the narratives of agricultural waste through eggshells. I want agricultural waste to be seen differently more like the gold that it is. We’re providing alternative energy sources – DG, NARICT Privatisation hasn’t brought more power   – Prof. Bugaje How not to fertilise agriculture