Dr Davidson Isibor Akhimien is the presidential candidate of Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN). Akhimien, a first timer in the presidential race, in this interview, bared his mind on the last presidential election and the need for slashing of the 91 political parties to five as well as a change in voting patterns. Excerpt: As candidate of a political party, what is your impression about the 2019 presidential election? With benefit of hindsight, we thank God we are alive to tell the story today. For me, it’s a tripartite engagement that involves the electoral body, the politicians and the electorate. Let me start from the umpire body. In the first instance, when the presidential election was postponed at the hour that it was postponed, one didn’t find that to be palatable especially given the resources that had been thrown into the process; the resources by government, by political parties, then the loss to the economy by that postponement. So, one looks at the umpire as a body that wasn’t prepared for elections but still went ahead to give people the impression that it was prepared. Or maybe they were prepared but it was just a strategy by whichever party to create what we call a shock in the system to cook advantage to whoever may have caused it to be. But the umpire body really didn’t do well and with subsequent elections, especially with the pockets of inconclusive elections as well as the military involvement, particularly in places like Rivers State. So, all of these gave the umpire a very bad name and it leaves so much to be desired. On the part of the electorate, they are also culpable in certain areas, especially with regards to violence which the President and Commander-in-Chief had preached against long before the elections. But we continued to see cases of violence in South-West and South-South parts of the country. So, it will appear that the electorate has not learnt their lessons in electioneering and the sentiments along primordial lines still exist in our politics and it is unfortunate. But on the part of the politicians, I will say that they are the instigators of the violence in the first place and they are equally guilty. So, the entire thing was below expectation. But we just have to move forward. We thank God that we still have Nigeria in one piece; we have to mend the cart and move along and see how we can improve on the electioneering process in subsequent elections. Do you agree with calls from some quarters that INEC should prune down the number of political parties, especially with the terrible outings most of them had in the just concluded elections? Firstly, the introduction of more political parties has its own merit and advantage, but it now appears that the negative is overriding the positives. At some point, the number of political parties that were registered now became so ridiculous. But from the grapevine, it was now found out that most of those parties were registered by proxy. They intended to use them to split the votes and reduce the chances of their major opponents. But the positive side is that, it threw up new entrants into the system and the clamour for new political elite have been heeded to. To that extent, the registration was able to open up the political space and it is commendable. The gap could be abridged so that we can bring it down to about four or five; that will be more manageable. I think 91 parties is ridiculous and that is why most of them got some ridiculous results at the elections. With the outcome of the 2019 general elections, what aspect of the Electoral Act do you think should undergo reform? Going by the performance of the umpire body in this election and the alarming rate of violence and ballot snatching, the most fundamental reform that can be done on our electoral system is electronic voting. It’s going to be much more less-expensive and it will make away with the ballot box snatching. It is also convenient for the electorate. We won’t need to shut down our country for elections if we adopt electronic voting. Yes, it may not totally eradicate rigging which is the mainstay of election victories in Nigeria, but it will put a modicum of sanity in the system. There are reports that bigger parties are making overtures at you to join them. What does the future hold for you in politics? Well, I don’t know what the future holds but I know who holds the future and whatever He says is what we will do. We will follow to the letter whatever He says we should do. GDPN candidate disassociates self from Atiku endorsement Nigeria decides today Elections not about APC, PDP only - Grassroots party