The Police command in Kaduna state has said its men killed three armed bandits who attacked Kakangi village of Birnin Gwari. Daily Trust reported earlier on Sunday how the bandits stormed the village around 5:00pm on Saturday and attacked residents during a mass wedding in the community. Among the injured were children who are now receiving treatment at Birnin-Gwari general hospital. Confirming the incident, the spokesman of the state Police Command, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said two policemen died while they engaged the attackers in a fierce gun battle. ‎He gave the names of the policemen that died as Inspector Aliyu Mohammed and Sergeant Rabiu Abubakar, both attached to Randagi Police Division. He said Sergeant Ibrahim Nasir along with six civilians were injured and are now receiving treatment at the General Hospital, Birnin Gwari. DSP Sabo also confirmed that the attackers also torched some houses in the village. “We received a distress call through DPO Randagi on 6/4/19 at about 1900hrs that armed men in large number entered Kakangi village of B/Gwari LGA a neighbouring community to Niger state, shooting sporadically and attacking the villagers. “Combine teams of PMF Personnel, conventional Police and Vigilante who were quickly mobilized to the village engaged the bandits in fierce gun duel and successfully repelled the attack. “Our gallant men gunned down three of the bandits and several others escaped into the bush with bullet wounds. “However, two of our men paid the supreme sacrifice during the intense gun duel with the bandits,” he said. He also said Command has mobilized more reinforcement to the area with a view to apprehend the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. The Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, however assured members of the public that the Command will fish out the culprits. Many feared dead as armed bandits attack wedding guests in Birnin Gwari Armed bandits kill five in Birnin Gwari One feared dead in Kaduna as bandits attack Birnin Gwari