To achieve economic prosperity in Nigeria which is measured to be a N140trn economy, a 10-year streak of N35 trillion annual investment is required, experts in the financial services sector have proffered. This recommendation came at the first bi-annual business lunch interactions recently organised by the Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (AIHN) where key policy makers and market practitioners dissected relevant issues that impact on the workings of the capital markets and on the overall Nigerian economy. Ike Chioke, 1st Vice President, AIHN and Group Managing Director, Afrinvest led the deliberations in which other panelists such as Ms Patience Oniha, DG, Debt Management Office; Mr Alex Okoh, DG Bureau of Public Enterprises; Mr Chuka Eseka, AIHN President and CEO, Vetiva Capital Management also participated. The experts also resolved that the Nigeria capital market, if properly incentivised, could help deliver the required fund to bolster the economy, reduce poverty rate and  create more jobs for Nigerians. According to them, the capital market provides a good platform for addressing many of Nigeria’s economic challenges. Meanwhile, the AIHN was tasked to utilise the moment to influence the new administration’s implementation strategy of its Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP) by pointing out areas where funding can be more easily accessed from the capital markets if appropriate reforms are introduced. For the capital market to fulfil its 10-year masterplan, the experts pointed out that “government policies and support are needed to drive activities that will encourage private sector participation to drive fundraising from the capital market. “We believe this should be hinged on four key pillars which are policy reform that  promotes markets economics, liberalization of the oil and gas sector, power sector optimisation and private sector-led infrastructure,” they explained. While acknowledging the 41.2% improvement in revenue in 2018, they however lamented that the revenue underperformed by an estimated 47.6% relative to the budget in 2018, and that the fiscal deficit remained elevated but reduced to 2.6% of GDP in 2018 (2017: 3.4%). Okonjo-Iweala, Aganga for FBN Capital conference How SMEs will survive economic hardship — Experts Capital market: Any hope for investors under new administration?