AXA Mansard Insurance, the global Insurance firm has launched the Insurance Television Commercial (TVC) for Life Insurance products with experts and stakeholders urging the people to embrace insurance not only for individual economic sustainability but for national economic development. The event was tagged: “Role of insurance in economic development”. A Director with the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Rasaaq Salami, stressed the significant role of insurance in economic development. He made reference to recent building collapse in Lagos which killed many people, lamenting that the buildings were not insured. He commended AXA Mansard, saying NAICOM is proud of the company’s TVC on life insurance policies because it is about customers getting benefits while still alive He said: “We need to start doing more in our plans to create awareness and that is the direction that the commission is going. We urge everybody to take up an insurance policy. “The commission is impressed with the commercial because we believe this is the direction that we should be moving in the industry. “We have always had adverts or creatives that talk about disasters and deaths. This has scared the people away from taking insurance. We are proud of this advert that gives benefits while the insured is alive.” He, however, called on operators to deepen awareness creation to encourage more people to embrace insurance. The Chief Executive Officer of AXA Mansard, Mr Kunle Ahmed, said the company’s life insurance products give cash-back, healthcare ‘checks and loyalty bonus on its life products. According to him, the life products are not just about benefits after the death of an insured but benefits to an insured while alive. “The TVC promotes the importance and benefits of life insurance, focusing on living benefits. We believe that the TVC will bring about a paradigm shift in people’s understanding of life insurance being the first of its kind in the insurance industry. “The TVC is also a testament to our desire to seek solutions that will increase insurance uptake in the country. We did a lot of research and we believe that life insurance penetration is still very low in Nigeria. “Many people would buy the general policies like motor, home insurance, etc and would rather not buy life insurance. We think that this may have to do with the way the life products are presented to the public. “This is why we came up with the TVC we have today and we believe through this effort, the perception that people have about life products will change for the better. “AXA Mansard was incorporated in June 1989. Within the 30 years of our existence, the name of the company has changed but we have remained the best in service standard. The company is a member of AXA Group, a world leader in insurance and asset management with 166,000 employees, 107 million clients across 64 countries in the world,” Ahmed said. What does future hold for insurance equities? AXA Mansard takes insurance closer to youth PTAD eliminates 3,000 police ghost pensioners