The Commissioner of Police Lagos State Police Command, CP Muazu Zubairu has been petitioned over the use of a detachment of Policemen attached to the RRS stationed at a disputed land situated at Coker village, Shaha in Idimu Local government area of the state. The petition dated March 20, 2019 and signed by one Engineer Adetokunbo Coker, is alleged that his late father’s expanse of land measuring 18.61 hectares situated at Coker village had been encroached on by agents and allies of one Gbenga Olaiya and selling same to unsuspecting buyers in flagrant disobedience to a subsisting court order restraining him from doing such. He contended that the matter in suit number ID/944/2007 was before Justice L. A. Okunnu of a Lagos High Court N0.39 (Land and chieftaincy matters division) adding that irrespective of the fact that the court had since issued an interlocutory injunction restraining the said Gbenga Olaiya who he described as a cousin from further encroaching on the land pending the determination of the suit; has continued to sell portions of the land with the assistance of the Police. “The said land measuring 18.61 hectres belongs to my late grandpa, Chief Philip Taiwo Coker and at his demise, partitioned the land into two; one portion for my father, Adeniyi Coker, and the other portion for his brother, Gbenga, the son of Omotayo Alabi Olaiya who was my father’s aunt’s son and Madam Victoria Apata (Nee Coker) who beget Gbenga Olaiya.  Trouble started after Gbenga Olaiya finished selling his entire father’s portion of land and jumped into my portion and started selling same. After several fruitless efforts by the family to stop his criminal trespass, I dragged him to court following which I obtained an interlocutory order stopping his further encroachment into the said land pending the outcome of court judgment. But to my surprise, he has refused to obey the court order using Police as a shield, hence this petition to your office.” The hearing into matter has been fixed for April 4, 2019. Contacted, the Commander RRS, Deputy Commissioner of Police, (DCP) Tunji Disu said he was not aware of a detachment of his men stationed at the disputed land anywhere in Shaha saying if there was such, the man who secured the presence of Policemen at the site was economical with the truth. Also the State Command public relations officer, DSP Bala Elkana said he was equally not aware of such detachment of Policemen to Shaha; assuring however, that he would find out and get back to us. “I do not know of any such detachment; you know I have just assumed office. Let me find out and get back to you, please,” he said. But he has yet to do that as of the time of filing this report. The hearing into matter has been fixed for April 4, 2019. Land dispute: Native doctors docked over death of man Alleged torture of a rights activist: Lagos CP orders reinvestigation of case Nagogo, Gov Yero, CP, others in court over land dispute