A faction of the Bauchi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) has suspended its state chairman, Alkali Abdu, and Secretary, Sani Mohammed Waziri over alleged anti-party activities. They were replaced by the PDM chairman, Katagum local government, Alhaji Muhammadu Jaudo and Alhaji Adamu Hassan, PDM chairman, Ganjuwa local government who will act as acting chairman and secretary respectively. The suspension was contained in a letter addressed to the party’s national chairman notifying him of the dissolution of the party’s State Working Committee. The letter, which was signed by the acting chairman and secretary, was copied to the State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Commissioner of Police, Director State Security Service and the Chairman, Bauchi State Council, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). The letter reads in part: “As a result of a letter of suspension dated ‎4th April, 2019 by PDM chairmen of all the local governments in Bauchi State, an emergency meeting of PDM Bauchi State state executive committee held on Monday 8th April, 2019 and resolved to dissolve the State Working committee under the leadership of Alkali Abdu and the state Secretary, Sani Muhammed Waziri. “This has become necessary because they were found to be involved in anti-party activities.” In the letter of suspension also signed by the acting chairman, Muhammadu Jaudo and acting secretary, Adamu Hassan, the suspended chairman and secretary were accused of, among other things, putting the party into unending crises. The letter also read: “The leadership fails in its responsibility to be calling meetings to solve simple problems which couldn’t have escalated into crises. “High level of indiscipline in the party, particularly on the side of the chairman and secretary. This is contrary to Article 18.6 of the Peoples Democratic Movement constitution (Amended 2014).” The chairman and secretary were also accused in the letter of alleged disregard for the party’s constitution, failure to render financial statement through financial recklessness and unilateral withdrawal of funds as well as alleged attempt to disorganise the party through outside influence.  Bauchi PDP in crisis over alleged financial recklessness, embezzlement Crisis rocks Bauchi PDP over N800m party fund Niger APC suspends women affairs commissioner