One of the major contenders for the office of the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has said that he will not allow the Red Chamber to become a rubber stamp of the executive if he emerged. Lawan said those that have the notion that he would allow the Senate to be a rubber stamp of the executive did not really know who he is and what he stood for. However, he said ‎if what the executive would bring to the Senate under him would be something that would bring food to the tables of Nigerians, he would gladly support it. Speaking when members of the All Progressives Youths Forum (APYF), Lawan said he believed the Senate under him would give the best to Nigeria and Nigerians in terms of legislation for good governance. “Some people said the Ahmad Lawan Senate Presidency will be a rubber stamp; they don’t know us. That’s not what I stand for. But if rubber stamp means what will bring food to the tables of Nigerians, so be it. “Separation of powers doesn’t mean we should be fighting. In fact, it means we should be inter-dependent. All of us in APC will support Mr President, but we’re going beyond that because we want other parties too to be on board.‎ “Nigerians haven’t seen the best of us in APC, because we could have delivered far more to Nigerians. For Nigerians to vote out a sitting government, it means they had confidence in APC. “Despite the unwarranted attacks and challenges, we were able to achieve a lot, but we believe we can achieve far more. President Muhammadu Buhari is a very prudent man with high integrity. Because of that, we were able to achieve something,” he said. Lawan said he would make sure that his campaign team met with all the 109 senators to canvass their support individually. “When our colleagues advised that we should run again this time around, we consulted widely and got the consent of stakeholders. We’ll go out to meet individual senators-elect and tell them what we’ll do and how we’re going to do it.” In a brief remark, senator-elect ‎for Ekiti Central, Dayo Adeyeye, thanked the APC youths for the visit and their endorsement, calling on them to spread their membership across the country. Most APC senators support Lawan to become Senate president — Sabi Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership