The absence of the lead counsel for former National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki, in court on Monday has stalled hearing in the charge against the ex-NSA and four others. Dasuki’s defence team is being led by a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chief Joseph B. Daudu (SAN). Dasuki was arraigned along with a former Minister of Finance (State), Bashir Yuguda, former Sokoto State governor, Attahiru Bafarawa and son, Sagir Bafarawa, and a firm, Dalhatu Investment Limited on a 25-count charge bordering on criminal breach of trust, misappropriation of public funds to the tune of N19.4billion. At the last sitting, the court had issued a production warrant on the Director of Department of Security Services (DSS) to ensure the presence of Dasuki in court for the hearing today. He had been in the custody of the government since December, 2015 despite several court orders ordering his release. However, at the resumed hearing today, while other defendants in the matter were present in court, Dasuki was again, absent. Speaking on behalf of all the counsels, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), who is the counsel for Attahiru Bafarawa, told the court that the lead counsel for Dasuki was bereaved. “It is true that today has been fixed for the hearing of the matter, but man proposes and God disposes. “Our colleague, leading the team for the second defendant, Chief J.B. Daudu (SAN) is bereaved and all counsels have been informed. “He lost a daughter-in-law, who also happened to be a staff of his chambers. This situation has overshadowed any other matter. Accordingly, all counsels have agreed that the matter be adjourned,” Fagbemi said, praying for the matter to be adjourned to June 11. The trial judge, Justice Husseini Baba-Yusuf, thereafter adjourned the matter to June 11, following the consent of all other parties. Dasuki’s absence again stalls Bafarawa, Yuguda’s trial N19bn armsgate: Court Affirms Dasuki’s Bail, adjourns Trial to February 24 Armsgate: Court dismisses Dasuki's application for indefinite adjournment