The chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations Mohammed Danjuma Goje will formally declare for the position of Senate President after the passage of the 2019 budget, a ranking senator told journalists on Thursday. The senator, who did not want to be named, said Goje delayed his declaration because of his commitment towards the quick passage of this year’s budget which is before his committee. Already, Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan (APC,Yobe) and Sen Mohameed Ali Ndume (APC, Borno) have declared their intention for the race. Northeast stakeholders including the North East Consultative Forum (NESF) and five other groups in the geopolitical zone, last week endorsed Goje and demanded for his immediate declaration for the position. Responding to the call, an ally of Goje, a serving APC lawmaker, said Goje does not want to combine his legislative works on the budget with the aspiration to vie for the Senate Presidency. Like the Northeast stakeholders, he said other groups from across the country are mounting pressure on the former governor of Gombe state to contest for the presidency of the Red Chamber. He said Goje, who chairs the Senate Committee on Appropriations is of the belief that the passage of the budget should be paramount to all, in view of its importance to the smooth running of the country. “His priority is to get the budget passed, for the prompt assent of Mr. President. As a committed loyalist of the president and APC, he doesn’t want anything that would delay the passage of the budget. He is of the view and conviction that the success of the president is his and that of all Nigerians. “This was why he worked tirelessly and religiously to ensure the victory of the president, the governorship candidate and all others who vied on the platform of APC in Gombe state,” he said. He said after the passage of the budget, the former governor would heed to the call of the stakeholders and other well-meaning Nigerians. JUST IN: Northeast Forum, others endorse Goje for Senate President, write Oshiomhole 9th Assembly: Group storms NASS, asks Goje to declare for Senate presidency NASS Leadership Tussle: Aspirants, opposition may gang up Against APC