Prof. Cecilia Olufunke-Akintayo, has advised the Federal Government to build modern based chemical plants, capable of producing bio-based petrol chemical in place of conventional Premium Motor Spirit, (PMS). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Olufunke- Akintayo, a Professor of Industrial Chemistry, Federal University, Oye Ekiti, Ekiti gave the advice on Sunday while delivering inaugural lecture of the university. She said that doing so would solve the perennial problems usually faced by Nigerians and government in processing and getting the commodity distributed. According to her, this will serve as alternative to petrochemical products which have also been a threat to biolife and environment. Her call was coming just as the institution’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Kayode Shoremekun, lamented the poor state of petrol chemical and steel industries in the country. Olufunke- Akintayo is also the Head of the university’s academic planning board. The don said in the lecture, entitled: “The place of plant oil derived products as sustainable replacement for petrochemical products in industries”, meant that Nigeria must look inward to solve her problems. According to her, there was an urgent need for paradigm shift from petrochemicals, which constitute biological hazards, to a sustainable alternative, where environmental impact will be reduced. She explained that application of natural products could provide sustainable alternative to petroleum-based products through adequate and proper designing of bio-based products. The professor also said that a transition toward bio-based products would also guarantee economic, social and environmental sustainability of the country. She also urged government to shift from what she referred to as monolithic oil- based economy to a diversified one, based on systematic utilisation of raw materials. (NAN) Lokoja residents laud FG''s decision to reduce petrol price Oil price: Now best time to end petrol subsidy – Experts FG planning increment of petrol price in March - Fayose