Zenith Bank has announced the appointment of Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu as its Group Managing Director/CEO effective from June 1, 2019, subject to approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The appointment is consistent with the bank’s tradition and succession strategy of grooming leaders from within. Mr. Onyeagwu replaces Mr. Peter Amangbo whose tenure expires on May 31, 2019. Mr. Amangbo leaves the bank at the end of a very successful career spanning over 27 years; with the last five years as GMD/CEO. Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu is a graduate of Accounting from Auchi Polytechnic where he obtained the OND in 1984 and HND in 1987.  He qualified as a chartered accountant in 1989 while he was still undergoing NYSC and was named a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) in 2003. He is an alumnus of the University of Oxford, England, from where he obtained a PGD in Financial Strategy, and a certificate in Macro-Economics. He also undertook extensive executive level business education in Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia Business School of Columbia University and the Harvard Business School of Harvard University (all in the United States) and the Lagos Business School of the Pan-African University, Nigeria. He has nearly 30 years’ experience in the banking industry in Nigeria.  He joined Zenith Bank in 2002 as a senior manager in the internal control and audit group of the bank.  His professionalism, competence, integrity and commitment to the set objectives of the bank saw him rise between 2003 and 2005, first, as assistant general manager, then deputy general manager, and eventually as general manager. In those capacities, he handled strategies for new business and branch development, management of risk assets portfolios, treasury functions, strategic top level corporate, multinational and public institutional relationships, among others. As Deputy Managing Director in 2016, Mr. Onyeagwu had oversight over the bank’s Financial Control and Strategic Planning, Risk Management, Retail Banking, Institutional and Corporate banking business portfolios, IT Group, Credit Administration, Treasury and Foreign Exchange Trading, as well as general administration of the bank, among others. He was named Executive Director of the bank in 2013 and put in charge of Lagos and South South Zone, as well as strategic groups/business units of the bank, including Financial Control and Strategic Planning, Treasury and Correspondent Groups, Human Resources Group, Oil and Gas Group, and Credit Risk Management Group. Mr. Onyeagwu has been on the board of Zenith Bank Ghana, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited, Zenith Nominees Limited and African Finance Corporation (AFC) within the last six years.  In AFC, he serves on the Board Risk & Investment Committee (BRIC) and Board Audit & Compliance Committee (BAAC). At Zenith Bank Ghana, he chaired the Board Credit and Governance Committees. He brings to his job strategic thinking, inspirational leadership, energetic and entrepreneurial skills. He is married with children. Amangbo is Zenith Bank GMD/CEO designate Skye Bank gets new GMD, DMD Transcorp Group appoints new CEO, non-executives