The Youth Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN) has dissociated itself from those organizing rebellion against the national leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) led by its National President, Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle.   The National Secretary, YOWICAN, Hon. Abel Divine Ogwuche, said on Friday in Abuja that some disgruntled elements calling the CAN leadership “Judas of our time” had gone too far in their transgression.   He said the official visit of the CAN leadership to President Muhammadu Buhari, is no doubt, a medium to have one on one chat to addressing critical issues affecting the Christian Community in Nigeria mostly in the areas of security challenges, insurgency, ethnic violence, kidnapping, herdsmen’s atrocities and the release of Leah Sharibu among others.   He stated that some groups calling themselves the coalition of Christians Groups for Good Governance – Nigeria and Diaspora (COCGOG) under a former leader of YOWICAN, Mr. Daniel Kadzai, and others parading themselves as voice of the Christians in different capacities are not representing the CAN or Nigerian Christians but are impostors.   “It is quite ridiculous and disheartening that an unwanted man in the society still dance to the salient drums of the hypocrites. Daniel Kadzai and his cohorts had failed to realize that ‘the sea has dried behind their fish’ and all their evil plans to destroy the hard earned leadership and ecclesiastical image of the CAN President, Rev. Olasupo Ayokunle has been uncovered,” Ogwuche said.   According to him, the acclaimed 500 Christian groups are a mirage to create deceptions and were never in existence.   He said CAN is made up of Blocs with leadership that can address any issue that relates to the organization, as no individual can rise and assume the powers of addressing the leadership he or she is not part of directly, thus all issues, if any, can only be channel through the leadership of such Bloc,   “We challenge them to provide the list of those 500 Christians Groups with their Corporate Affairs Registration details as proofs coupled with their group’s pictures of the said meeting. The CAN remain the umbrella body of the larger Christians bodies and denominations in Nigeria under the leadership of Rev. Olasupo Ayokunle.   “The visit of the CAN President to the victims of Boko-Haram insurgency in the North East is part of the official itineraries of the CAN President in the year 2019, the provisions of funds and materials donated contained in the 2019 Budget presented, deliberated and approved by CAN NEC in her last meeting,” he said. CAN chairman urges prayers for lasting peace in N/East Christian youth withdraws  case against CAN 2019: Stop using youths as thugs — CAN urges politicians