Pope Francis, Head of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State says hatred and revenge are not legitimate ways of ensuring speedy and effective justice. The Pope said this at the celebration of Mass at the Moulay Abdallah Stadium to round off his two-day visit to Morocco. The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) reports that the Mass was attended by government officials, students, nationals from different countries, particularly from Sub-Saharan Africa, migrants, clergymen and worshipers among others. According to him, hatred, division and revenge succeed only in killing our people’s soul, poisoning our children’s hopes, destroying and sweeping away everything we cherish. “Jesus invites us to have the heart of Our Father. Only then we can acknowledge once more that we are brothers and sisters “It is only against this backdrop that we can transcend our shortsighted and divisive ways of thinking and see things in a way that does not downplay our differences in the name of a forced unity or quiet marginalisation. ‘. “If only we can raise our eyes to heaven each day and say Our Father, we will be able to be part of a process that can make us see things clearly and no longer see ourselves as enemies but brothers and sisters. ” This according to him is the greatest legacy and wealth of a Christian. “Instead of measuring or classifying ourselves according to different moral, social, ethnic or religious criteria, we should know that another criterion exists. One that cannot take away or destroy because it is pure gift.” Pope Francis commended the Christians in Morocco for their efforts in making their communities oasis of mercy.
He also commended the government and people of Morocco for according him a warm reception and prayed God to continue to bless Morocco. NAN reports that Pope Francis met migrants and Muslim leaders, and held a Mass for the country’s small Roman Catholic community. He thanked local clerics and religious leaders for helping Muslims, the poor and migrants. (NAN) The resignation of Pope Benedict XVI Mutual trust can build the nation Mutual trust can build the nation