The Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, has warned hotel owners operating in his domain against allowing criminals to use their facilities as hideouts. Oba Alabi gave the warning yesterday at a meeting with hotel owners and heads of security agencies at his palace in Ilawe, headquarters of the Ekiti Southwest Local Government Council, Ekiti State. The traditional ruler said he was disturbed by the recent upsurge in criminal activities like rape and drug addiction by youths, hence the need to summon the security meeting to halt the trend. He advised the hoteliers to always take the true profiles of lodgers or customers in their hotels and forward same to security agencies, particularly the police, to enable them have a clear picture of daily activities in such hotels. He also advised them against lodging two men and more with one lady in a room, noting that lodgers could commit crimes such as rape and cultism initiation, or use such abode to plan robbery operations. According to the Alawe, the issue of security must be taken seriously by all and sundry to sustain the existing peace in Ilawe-Ekiti. He disclosed that members of the Alawe-in-Council had decided to sensitise the entire Ilawe community, particularly the youths, against criminal activities and warned that anyone caught would be handed over to security agents. The Divisional Police Officer, Ilawe Division, Deputy Superintendent Usman Khanjallo, who was one of the security chiefs at the meeting, commended Oba Alabi for his initiative and promised to provide adequate security cover for the community. Khanjallo warned criminals to stay away from Ilawe, stressing that his men would not tolerate any breach of peace. The hotel owners, through their spokesman, Mr Udom Christopher, promised to abide by the directives of the Alawe and the decisions taken at the meeting.  Ekiti monarch denies sit-tight syndrome allegation raised by colleagues Ekiti monarch denies sit-tight syndrome allegation Kwara to get task force on thuggery