The National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Victor Oye, has appealed to the aggrieved party members to sheathe their swords and join hands to lift the party higher. Chief Oye, who spoke, yesterday in Awka, Anambra State capital  while reviewing his four years as the national chairman of the party, said APGA had concluded plans to send some of its members abroad  for leadership training. He said that the party needed everybody to move forward for better, stressing that “APGA is sweeter when all members are together”. He said the first batch of the training would be for the 36 state chairmen of the party and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “We want everybody that feels aggrieved to bury their hatchet; let us work together. We need everybody. In fact, APGA is sweeter when we are more. “Some of the people who felt aggrieved have their reasons, but I use this medium to ask them to sheathe their sword and let’s work together because the future is very rosy. “We are going to look at the welfare of our members. We believe that this party has reached a level where it should be able to take care of its members, not politics, politics, politics all the time. “We are working with some agencies on how we can send our 36 state chairmen and others abroad for leadership programmes so that they can develop intellectually and even administratively and acquire more skills on how to administer the party. “This is something we have been doing silently without announcing it. But this time, we are going to promote it so that it would reflect our overall vision. “We are also looking at the intellectual capacity of members. I believe that as you are giving to the party, the party should also be giving to you by ensuring that members get the opportunity to go for intellectual development abroad and the party will sponsor them. “Our expansion plan will continue, we want to come out with a more elaborate plan on how to begin to win elections in Nigeria in a more concrete form. One of the ways to do that is building confidence in the people of the party; build cohesion and synergy here and there,” he said. According to Oye, the party has plans for indigent members as its social corporate responsibility as a welfarist party. He said such programme would instill discipline amongst members so that when instructions were given, they would be carried out religiously.  Oye kicks as Agbaso takes over APGA secretariat Oye kicks as Agbaso takes over APGA nat secretariat Aggrieved APGA aspirants threaten to vote against Obiano