The Sustainable Democracy Agenda (SUDA) a pro-democracy group has called on senators still agitating to lead the 9th Senate to key into the Senator Ahmed Lawan project as it has grown beyond a mere ‘imposition’ by the ruling APC to become the choice of majority of the senators-elect. In a statement by the convener of the group, Ibrahim Haruna Usman, SUDA said it observed with kin interest how Senator Lawan, despite being endorsed by the leadership of the APC, still went ahead to sell his candidacy to all senators-elect on one-on-one basis during the induction exercise for incoming lawmakers. The group said “this approach by Lawan has discredited claims that his candidature was an imposition aimed at installing inept leadership in the Senate. As it stands, majority of the lawmakers across party lines have accepted the Lawan project and are ready to adopt it ahead of inauguration of the 9th Senate in June.” SUDA said the campaign approach by Senator Lawan to make the project that of majority of senators-elect has yielded result, noting that “by his wealth of experience in legislative process, Senator Lawan has set the stage for not just smooth inauguration but a stable and productive 9th Senate.” The group said barring the intervention of the APC leadership, Senator Lawan remains the most suitable to preside over the 9th Senate “as he remains unarguably the most experienced of all the APC senators-elect having been in the National Assembly consistently since 1999. He has also been in the Senate since 2007. None of the other aspirants could boast of such ranking.” SUDA said the senators-elect should look beyond the concluded issue of Senate presidency to filling other positions including deputy Senate president, leader of the Senate, minority leader and other majority and minority slots that make up the Senate leadership. “We call on senators-elect to concentrate on drawing up legislations that would restore the confidence of the people in the National Assembly, especially laws that will improve security, poverty reduction, create mass jobs and grow the economy,” the group said in the statement. Senate Presidency: Group hails Buhari, APC over Lawan’s choice Senate Presidency: Sen. Lawan enjoys popular support – Group Group urges senators-elect to support Lawan for Senate president