The Federal Government’s fight against corruption needs the support of all Professional Accounting Organisations (PAOs), the new President of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), Prof. Prof. Muhammad Mainoma, has said. Prof. Mainoma who was inaugurated as the 11th  President of ANAN in Abuja at the weekend, said the association would work with other accounting bodies to strengthen transparency and accountability programmes of the Federal Government. “The Federal Government’s National Anti-Corruption Strategy (NACS) needs the support of PAOs in Nigeria. The (ANAN) council shall be working with other PAOs to form a joint accounting body as formidable platform for advancing government,” he said. Mainoma made this known during his inauguration as the association’s president and unveiling of new logos of ANAN and its training arm, the Nigerian College of Accountancy (NCA), Jos. “PAOs must work alongside government, regulators, law enforcement and international bodies to combat corruption, tax evasion, money laundering and to strengthen transparency and accountability programmes,’’ Mainoma added. On the economy, Mainoma said the macro-economic performance of the Nigerian economy had largely reflected the role of the global economy. “With the favourable outlook in 2019 resulting from the rising crude oil price, growth in external reserves, declining inflation and GDP growth, there is hope that these would translate to sustainable economic development. “We urge the government to improve the pace of implementing the ERGP. The power sector reform programme needs to be vigorously implemented to create enterprising climate for industrialisation and attract private investments,’’ he said. Mainoma commended the effort of the Federal Government in institutional and governance reforms including the implementation of the Government Integrated Financial Management and Information Systems (GIFMIS), Intergrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) and the Treasury Single Account (TSA). “We shall partner with the three tiers of government to enhance fiscal transparency and accountability governance,’’ the new ANAN president assured. Mainoma is a Professor of Accounting and Finance, a former Commissioner of Finance in Nasarawa State, and the immediate past Vice Chancellor of the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, under whose leadership the university witnessed transformation and international visibility as the fastest growing university. He holds the fellowship of several professional organisations in Nigeria, Ireland and the United States. In his valedictory address, the immediate past President of ANAN, Alhaji Shehu Ladan, said in January, 2019, ANAN marked its 40th anniversary as a home-grown professional accounting organisation. ANAN backs FG on corruption fight, whistle blowing Forensic accounting to end corruption – Society On the irksome relationship between ICAN and ANAN