A police Inspector attached to the Trinity Division, Lagos State Police Command, Dania Ojo, is on the run after his team allegedly shot dead a 29-year-old girl, Ada Ifeanyi, at the Ajegunle area of the state. Five other members of the team have since been arrested over their alleged involvement in the shooting that also left another person, Emmanuel Akomafuwa, injured. Inspector Dania Ojo, who was said to have bolted immediately after the shooting incident, has since been declared wanted by the state police command. The incident sparked off violent protest as scores of youths in the area took to the street demanding justice. The killing came barely two weeks after a policeman, Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan, attached to the Anti-Cultism unit of the state command, shot dead a man, Kolade Johnson, at a viewing centre. Inspector Olalekan has since bren dismissed from service and remanded in prison custody. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the latest killing at Ajegunle, said that the five policemen were arrested on the orders of the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State,  Zubairu Muazu. Elkana said the female victim, Ifeanyi, was a resident of No. 4b, Amusa Lane, off Ojo Road, Ajegunle, while  Akomafuwa, 32, lived at No. 52, Babatunde Street, Olodi Apapa. “The incident happened on April 13, 2019 at about 7am. Members of the team suspected to be involved in the shooting are from Trinity police station and are currently facing internal disciplinary proceedings at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja. “Their rifles have been retrieved for forensic analysis by ballisticians. If found wanting, they will be prosecuted in a conventional court for murder. “The policemen arrested are Inspector Adamu Usman, Sergeant Adeyeye Adeoye, Sergeant Kashim Tijani, Sergeant Lucky Akigbe and Sergeant Paul Adeoye, while Inspector Dania Ojo, who escaped immediately after the shooting incident, is declared wanted by the Command,” the PPRO said. Elkana expressed Muazu’s “deepest condolence” to Ifeanyi’s family and friends and assured Akomafuwa’s family that the police would be footing his medical bill.  Kolade Johnson: Police inspector dismissed, to be prosecuted JUST IN: Five policemen arrested for killing woman in Lagos Kolade Johnson: Killer cop remanded in prison