The APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, has said the decision of the ruling party on the selection and zoning of principal offices in the incoming 9th National Assembly is supreme and must be respected by the party’s legislative caucus and opposition federal lawmakers. Nabena, who spoke with newsmen, yesterday in Abuja, on the heightened political activities for the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, cautioned the outgoing Senate president, Bukola Saraki and Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to stay clear of the leadership in both legislative chambers. The Bayelsa-born APC chieftain said, “the APC has learnt its lesson from the outgoing National Assembly when impostors masquerading as party men sabotaged our party and hijacked our mandate. Affliction shall not rise up the second time. “The efforts by the Adams Oshiomhole leadership of the party are commendable in achieving a fair selection and zoning arrangement that appeals to a greater section of the party stakeholders. “APC has the overwhelmingly majority in the National Assembly and has a legitimate right to make its choices on the selection and zoning of principal offices. The APC family is in agreement on the party’s supremacy and the PDP and other opposition parties should focus on their minority positions.” The APC deputy spokesman said the outgoing Senate President Saraki, Speaker Dogara and the PDP National Assembly caucus had been moving from pillar to post to frustrate the plan of APC through a hidden evil plot to interfere in the emergence of incoming leaders. “We are aware of the scheming by Saraki, Dogara and the PDP caucus to interfere with the emergence of the incoming National Assembly leadership. Their plans are bound to fail as the APC is a strong party with unity of purpose,” Nabena said. 9th NASS leadership: Announce fair zoning formula now, Nabena advises APC Nabena urges Buhari to play role in NASS leadership election N/East, N/Central battle for senate presidency