The National Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has commenced a nine-day workshop for Proprietors of selected Islamiyya Quranic Tsangaya Education (IQTE) Schools/Centers in nine pilot states on a new initiative to mop the Almajiris out of the street. Executive Secretary of the commission, Dr Hamid Bobboyi, who disclosed this during the commencement of the workshop  in Kaduna, said the training was to acquaint the participants with their duties and responsibilities, increase their capacities and interact with them on the new approach to mop out Almajiri children out of the street and return them to formal schools. Bobboyi said: “It is worrisome that in spite  of efforts made by federal government through its policy reviews and initiatives to improve access to basic education, a rough estimate of about 10.5 million children are still out of school. This is not good for a country like Nigeria that subscribe to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and other national and international conventions on education.” Represented by Mallam Hassan Umar, UBEC Director Special Programme, Bobboyi said that the numbers of children who are out of school have been classified under three categories including the Almajiri found largely in northern states. Others, he said, were the out of school girl-child found predominately in the north and some southern states and the boy-child drop outs found mostly in the southern states. “One of the most priority attention of the Minister of Education was to address the out-of-school children. This was encapsulated in the Ministerial Strategic Framework on revitalization of education as priority number one.” He said that the new approach initiated by the ministry drew critical stakeholders that gave birth to a detailed blueprint for IQTE programme which provides a situation analysis, policy framework and discussion in the key activities to be carried out to address the challenges. “The programme activities in the blueprint will be tested in Adamawa, Bauchi, Yobe, Kano, Jigawa, Sokoto, Katsina, Niger and Oyo.” He further explained that a sample survey has already been carried out in all the pilot states to obtain some vital information on the IQTE sub-sector. Bobboyi noted that the commission as well as other agencies have identified the inadequate political will on the part of some state governors to prioritize basic education delivery and no-adaptation, utilization and replication of UBEC initiated programmes at the state levels as some of the hurdles militating against the menace. He added that other challenges include inadequate awareness of existing educational policies and programmes and the inability of most of the benefiting communities to own, support and sustain the programmes. ‘Plaiting louse-infested hair’ (II) Save Almajiri model schools Almajiri: We need clear exit route, enough of literature reviews