A former governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, in this interview, expressed confidence that the Peoples Democratic Party has ample opportunity to win the November governorship election in the state. Alhaji Idris who celebrated his 70th birthday on Saturday, also spoke about his life. How do you feel at 70? Well, I feel great and I am grateful to God to have kept me up to this moment. I remain grateful to Him for what He has been doing for me; what he has done for me and my family, and what He has used me to do for the people as well. How would you assess the current state of affairs in Kogi? Many of the things I left behind in office are dilapidated. They have not been taken care of. It is expected that government is a continuous exercise and as you leave, whoever is taking over from you will continue from where you stopped. What are those things you left that are dilapidated? I remember the one people call ‘Ibro water’ which everybody was talking about. It is not there anymore. The water project is meant to service Okene, Koton karfe and even all the towns towards Kabba. It produces about 50 million gallons every day. What about the roads and institutions like Kogi State University that was ranked as one of the best state universities in Nigeria and even in West Africa? It’s now something you will just look at and lament. I remember when I was there, we had over 100 professors, but now, I doubt if there are more than 10. There are so many to count. All I will say is that I’m not really happy when I see all the good jobs I’ve done that are not maintained. You’ve been living a quiet life since you left office? Well, from the word go, I’m not a noisemaker, and even while I was in office. I’m a silent achiever. When I was there, most people didn’t see what I did; it was after I left that they realized that what I’ve done was there for them to see. The fact is I do not believe in talking; I only talk when it’s necessary. For me, like I said earlier, I don’t care who is there, my interest is about who will serve the people well and give them what they want. When this doesn’t happen, then it is disturbing. So, if PDP will be the answer to that, then I’ll work very hard, collectively with every member of PDP, to make sure we bring back our lost home – Kogi State. Some former governors fell out with their ‘anointed’ successors. How was it like between you and ex-Governor Idris Wada? We’re humans so we’re not perfect. Why probably you didn’t hear us quarrelling like other states was because I minded my business. I didn’t make him governor; God did. I may be instrumental to it, but that does not mean I should tell him what to do while in office; I don’t have such right. I can only advise him; where I advise him, he takes it and it works for him, fine; where he doesn’t, that is left for him. I never intruded in his administration. Mine was just to give him useful advice that would help him get up. I believe that the moment somebody is in power and you try to tell him what to do and how to do it, that is when you get into trouble. The moment you avoid that, you don’t have any problem. That is why you didn’t hear us quarrel. What is your next political aspiration? I’m contented. My prayer to God when I was leaving office was to give me somebody that would do better than what I did. Luckily, I left the office without blemish from the people I served. Above all, today in Kogi, people still love me. For them to appreciate me, I think that is enough for me. There are some of my colleagues who cannot go back to their places. For now, I don’t have any political ambition. Being interested in politics is because of what is happening. I cannot sit in my house eating, drinking and wining and other members outside are suffering and you expect me to be happy. That was why I decided to come back to see what I can do. We need the cooperation of everybody to work hard and see how best we can present PDP to the people. I still believe PDP has an ample opportunity to come back to power in Kogi. As a leader of the PDP in Kogi State, how prepared is your party for the November governorship election in the state? To be honest with you, my concern is to have a good leader who will take care of my state; our state, Kogi State. That is my main concern. I don’t really mind whether the person is from APC, SDP or any party. My concern is to have a leader who will continue from where I stopped so that people will have food on their tables; live happily and have quality lives. But when these are not available and people are crying no food, you would get disturbed. To be frank and honest, I’m not happy with what’s going on in Kogi. I’m not trying to condemn anybody. The state of life in Kogi is so miserable. Do you foresee a free and fair governorship poll in November in the state? Except there is a change in the heart of the leadership to allow for free and fair election. If what they did in the last elections will be repeated, then there’ll be no free and fair election in the state. What has been your greatest challenge in life? It has not been smooth all through. I’ve always worked very hard. From my childhood, God has always been kind to me. Things were difficult, but God is always finding a way of putting them right for me. You find out people look at me and ask why I build mosques and churches all over and so on. It’s not because I have money. Why I do that is because I want to appreciate God for what He has done for me. Of course, I cannot pay God and I cannot bribe Him. But I believe in trying to help improve the houses of God, be it for Christians or Muslims, we’re all praying to God. If it is so, then whatever I do, I do it because of God. That’s all I think I can offer for now because I cannot pay Him enough for what He has done for me. ‘How Wada’s approach to governance differs from others’ Kogi at 20: a state battling to prove its age Kogi: Gov Wada should deliver on election promises now - Senator Ohize