The Edo State governorship election is coming up next year but intrigues and maneuvering over who becomes the ticket bearer of the APC have already fragmented the ruling party into rival camps. One of the factions is said to be behind the immediate past governor of the state and the current national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole while the other faction is loyal to the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. The development has ignited a cold war between chieftains of the APC in the state especially, Comrade Oshiomhole and governor Obaseki, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered. Interestingly, there had been constant denial by both the governor and his godfather, Oshiomhole of any possible rift between them. But recent happenings in the state polity showed that the supremacy battle for 2020 has already began and is tearing the two friends apart. Obaseki was the head of Oshiomhole’s economic team during his tenure and was supported to succeed him as governor against all odds. In the build up to the 2016 governorship election, Obaseki was not in the picture of those wanting to succeed Oshiomhole. Oshiomole was said to have single handedly selected Obaseki as the party candidate despite objections from other party’s chieftains. Among contenders who were against Oshiomhole’s move to bring Obaseki were his then deputy, Dr Pius Odubu, Osarodion Ogie, former Minister of Works, Engr. Chris Ogienwonyi, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, and Kenneth Imasuagbon. The objection to Obaseki was said to be particularly vehement in Edo South Senatorial district where he was perceived by party chieftains as a politician who would not dance to their whims. However, Oshiomole was said to have used his power of incumbency and oratory skills to convince party chieftains and some of the contestants who eventually stepped down for his anointed candidate, Obaseki. Consequently Obaseki emerged the candidate of the APC and defeated his rival Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who had defected to the PDP when he perceived that his ambition of becoming the governor would not be actualized under the then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) with Oshiomole as governor. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered the cold war between Oshiomhole and Obaseki started when the former’s foot soldiers and party chieftains stopped receiving the same privileges under the current administration. As soon as Obaseki was sworn-in, new rules and regulations were spelt out in accessing the government house, as politicians who have no business there were barred from patronage. Obaseki’s was said to have made it clear that he is a technocrat and that the allocation to the state and its internally generated revenue were meant for the development of the state and not for sharing among politicians. It was gathered that though Oshiomole was not happy with the treatment of his allies he kept calming them down while talking to Obaseki. However, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that Oshiomhole has started mobilizing some of his political associates like Pius Odubu, Osarodion Ogie, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, Chris Ogiewonyi to warm up for the primary election as possible replacement. The cold war between them became much glaring during the 2019 general election over who got the party’s ticket for the National and state Assemblies election. Obaseki who is already desirous of a second term wanted to have his loyalists and members of his political group, especially at the state House of Assembly who would help him actualize his ambition. But Oshiomhole was not disposed to that as he also wanted his loyalists in the House. The ensuing tussle was said to have forced the party to hold two primary elections in the state after the one conducted by the state executive was cancelled by the national body of the party. Immediately after the election, it was alleged that Oshiomhole’s loyalists plotted the removal of the speaker of the Edo State Assembly, Alhaji Kabir Adjoto, who is said to be Obaseki’s loyalist. It was gathered that Victor Edoro believed to be Oshiomhole’s loyalist was penciled to take over the house leadership after speaker Adjoto had been impeached. But Adjoto got wind of the clandestine move and informed Governor Obaseki and they also mapped out their strategies to forestall his removal. Interestingly, Hon Victor Edoro who was unaware of the surreptitious plan by Adjoto and his loyalists stormed the Assembly to actualise the impeachment plot but instead the legislative hammer fell on Edoro and some of his loyalists who were suspended from the day’s plenary session. Meanwhile, the High Court  and the Court of Appeal  have already sacked the House of Representatives member elect for Akoko-Edo federal consttuency, Hon Peter Akpatason as well as state Assembly member elect, Osaro Obaze, believed to be  Oshiomhole’s candidates. Curiously, after the presidential election, the state government reportedly commended the people of Edo State for their performance during the presidential election as according to him; the votes polled in 2019 by the APC were higher than those of the 2015 elections. Pundits believe that comparing the 2019 and 2016 election showed clearly that there was a crack in the relationship between Obaseki and Oshiomole. During his thanksgiving at the Omega Fire Ministry, Benin, after winning the 25 seats of the state Assembly, Governor Obaseki said many people were unhappy with him because he was working for the ordinary people of Edo State. “It is God that gives power through the people and that is why  I have chosen to serve the ordinary people, even if I am going to be governor for one day. The people will remain my priority despite the fact that some people want me to do otherwise. They cannot do me anything. It is you, the people that matter. It is you that will keep me in power. When God decides to keep me in power, it is you that will make it possible”, he said. Not long thereafter he informed the people that many party stalwarts were against him for working for the masses, his loyalists descended on those perceived to be an obstacle to his second term bid. Observers believe that Obaseki’s comment came on the heels of the alleged fractured relationship between him and Oshiomole. Things appear to have assumed a new twist as Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, who was suspended by the Oredo chapter of the party for anti-party activities during the presidential election claimed it was an attempt to stop him from contesting the 2020 governorhip primary. Maintaining that no intimidation will stop him from participating in the state governorship primary election, Airhiavbere (rtd) said: “My suspension is a ploy by a group of persons and leaders in the APC, who see me as a threat to other aspirants for the 2020, Edo governorship election. They want to stop me from contesting the governorship position. “I will continue to run for governor of Edo State, until I get to the Government House. No amount of intimidation will make me shy away from contesting the governorship election for 2020,” he said. As the next State Assembly awaits inauguration the duo are said to have clashed over who becomes the speaker. While Oshiomole, it was gathered, is disposed to Victor Edoro, Obaseki is said to be rooting for Frank Okiye. As the intrigues and maneuverings rage on, observers who believe that Governor Obaseki would be outsmarted in the politics of who gets the partys flag have come to the realization that politics may not necessarily be how long one has been in the terrain. Observers say Obaseki has penetrated the loyalists of Oshiomhole and won them to his side. The Secretary to the State Government, Bar. Osarodion Ogie and the Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, who are believed to be Oshiomhole’s loyalists are said to have pitched tent with Obaseki. Ogie and Shaibu, it was gathered are now the arrow heads of Obaseki’s movement which is now gaining more popularity in the state. Observers note that Shaibu may have joined Obaseki due to the favourable treatment accorded to him as he is believed to the most fortunate deputy governor in the state, so far. Shaibu, unlike the previous deputies, who were confined to their office, assumed the position of an acting governor when his principal went on break. It was also gathered that Charles Idahosa, a staunch supporter of Oshiomhole has also switched allegiance to Obaseki. As the battle over who gets the  party ticket for the 2020 governorship election pitches Oshiomole against his godson, Obaseki, observers say only time will tell  who gains the upper hand in the cold war. PDP won''t have won Oyegun''s unit, if we rigged Edo poll —  Oshiomhole Keep your promises, APC chieftain advises Obaseki I don’t care if Obaseki betrays me – Oshiomhole