The candidate of Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, is leading in 13 out of 15 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the governorship election  results collated so far by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC commenced the collation of the governorship election results at the Aba/Port Harcourt  road office of the commission yesterday. From the results collated so far, Governor Nyesom Wike polled a total number of 476,279 in 12 LGAs of Andoni, Eleme, Opopo/Nkoro, Okrika, Omuma, Tai, Ahoada east, Etche, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni , Bonny , Emuoha and Ikwerre, while the African Action Congress (AAC) governorship candidate , Biokpomabo Awara, won only in Oyigbo and Akuku toru LGAs with a total number of 129,328 votes. Governor Wike is leading his closest challenger Biokpomabo  Awara of the AAC with  296,951 votes. State Returning Officer and Deputy Vice Chancellor, Federal University, Otuoke, Prof Teddy Adias, declared the results in the 15 LGAs. He said collation will continue today. Results of 8 LGAs yet to by collated Results of eights LGs –  Abua Odua, Ahoada west, Obio Akpor, Asari toru, Degema, Gokana and Khana  and Ogu/Bolo – are yet to be collated. Meanwhile, unknown gunmen yesterday disrupted a peaceful protest  carried out by suppoters of the AAC in Port Harcourt. The groups, United Niger Deltans for Buhari, UNDB, and Coalition of Non-Governmental Organisation in Rivers State had  carried out a peaceful protest in Port Harcourt  against the collation of the governorship and state assembly elections in the state. This was happening as the Rivers State Government in a statement by the Commissioner of Information and Communications, Emma Okah, said the State government had placed a temporary ban on street protest. But the protest was aborted when suspected thugs invaded and attacked the protesters. One of the leaders of the Protesters,  Chief Anabs Sara-Igbe, who accused Rivers State government  of using  thugs to stop the protest, said the groups had obtained police permit before embarking on the action. He said the Rivers people would not accept the outcome of the result being collated, claiming that the INEC had concluded plans return Governor Wike. Rivers governorship: Awara floors Wike in two LGAs, as INEC collates poll results of 10 LGAs Rivers’ Poll results collation: Gov. Wike takes early lead Wike claims 2 LGs as INEC resumes collation of Rivers poll