Dr Victoria Enape, the Protem of President, Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors of Nigeria (CIFIAN), says only forensic auditing can prevent fraud and corruption in Nigeria.  You and your institute seem to be unknown to most Nigerians? My name is Dr Mrs Victoria Enape, the protem  President of Charter Institute of Forensic and Investigative  Auditors of Nigeria (CIFIAN). I am professional accountant, a manager, examiner and forensic auditor. Your institute claims it is the answer to corruption in Nigeria, how do you mean? We didn’t claim, but the fact remains that you and I know Nigeria has been burning with the fire of fraud, corruption,  bribery ,money laundering cybercrime all these years, to the point that development has been stalled,  and nobody could find a solution to this and that is the reason why CIFIAN emerged to assist Nigerian government to curtail these issues especially, fraud and corruption. The reason why we are different is because we have a different approach, to ensure that this menace is reduce – we can’t eliminate it completely, but we are going to reduce it to the bearest  minimum, by making sure that we prevent fraud. If it eventually happens we have all it takes to investigate it no matter how small or big it is, we are also going to put mechanisms in places to prevent future occurrence. What is the new approach you have to do that? The new approach we have is prevention, we want to teach people to be proactive when it comes to fraud issues, because the problem of this country is reactiveness, reactiveness has not help anybody that is why you see a lot of people that have committed fraud especially the high profile ones have not been brought to book because if there is no evidence you cannot prosecute someone without evidence. But forensic and investigative auditors will ensure we get this evidence and use that to prosecute corrupt people. We use science and technology to get the evidence, we will get the evidence after gathering the evidence we secure it, we analyse it and also bring it to court to stand as an expert witness in other for the prosecution to be easy. What do you mean by science and technology? We use some  high deck of forensic expertise, is like a software that we use which is known, like I  told you forensic is an emergency trend  it wasn’t there in the year 1970 left alone 1965,it just came late 1980s and when it came some of these software am talking about now came on board that is what we use to put in place in some organizations.  If you click and you attempt to manipulate figures, as accountant manipulate figures, if you want to manipulate there is a way we will get you immediately ,that’s a way we prevent it. But software is developed by man, it can be …? (Cuts in) That’s why we tell you high technique is also involved; it is not only a normal software that men develop.  This kind of high tech is the type that you cannot easily manipulate it. So if anybody doubts what I say they should just try us let them pass the bill and they will see what we can do, we will no longer allow accountant to manipulate figures and empty government treasure like they have been doing. You are an accountant ma’am yourself, what exactly is the issue CIFIAN has with accountants? No, we don’t have any personal problem with accounting profession or the accountants. I am an accountant myself, so I or CIFIAN don’t have any personal issue with the profession or the practitioners.  We are only trying  to assist the government to put an end to what some accountants do by way of helping corrupt Nigerians to perpetrate fraud.  Our mandate is to investigate fraud  – the forensic and investigative auditors’  work is all about  fraud detection, protection and investigation. Then you seem to have problem with ICAN and they seem to have problem with you. We don’t have problem with ICAN; we have nothing in common. I am not saying we want to march them: ICAN is all about assurance services and compliance. When ICAN comes to an organization, they look at financial statement, they want to be sure that they complied with rules and regulation, also the second one when I say assurance services I mean to say, when they come to the organization they have  to give assurance to the  people that  your organization is healthy ,the organization is doing well, that is their work. They also want to sure that the people that prepare the financial statement complies with the rules and regulation, that’s what they do.  They have no power to investigate fraud: that is the reason why there are failed banks in Nigeria.  You remember that they are so many banks that have failed in this country: law was helpless simply because accountants have no mandate to investigate fraud. So nobody could hold them and say why didn’t you see the fraud. CIFIAN is mandated to investigate fraud and that’s  all we have ,we have nothing to do with creation of financial statement, we have nothing to do with compliance and assurance service:our is when you suspect fraud in an organization you will  now call us – we are watchdog . When you call us, what do we do is to unravel  those who are involved in this fraud, why and how they committed this fraud, Is this not the wok of law enforcement agencies? No, the only thing is that if law enforcement agency wants  to be part of it they can join us. That is, our membership cuts across other professions.  We have law, criminology ,accountant ,investigation-  they are all our members because our work is not about finance only, it  involves litigation after our work, we gather our evidence we need to go to the court to bear witness, that’s what we call testimony and expert witness If there is fraud complaint and you are called and you charge a fee. Why do you think people will patronise you when EFFC can do the same without fee? Who says EFFCC doesn’t charge a fee?  The people that go to those places, they pay their flight ticket. They are paying them hotel accommodation, those that are working there; they are paying them big salary. The foreigners that were invited from outside the country that time to come and investigate NNPC was also paid hard currency, our hard currency that was scarce  resources  is the one they paid them, but now  if you patronise made in Nigeria you won’t pay much, you pay small that is to enable us carry our assignment. When you say you are mandated to investigate fraud, is any law backing you up? The senate of the federal republic of Nigeria passed the bill to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors of Nigeria on 5 July 2018,so the bill was passed by the upper house waiting for concurrence by the lower  house which I know that in no distant time it shall   be done. But why do people get involved in fraud? People involve in fraud simply because they have opportunity to commit fraud. That is why I said that forensic auditors’ work is prevention, detection, and investigation. In the area of prevention what we do is to remove opportunity from the fraud triangle: we have opportunity, we have rationalization, we have pressure. And if we remove opportunity you won’t be able to commit fraud again; we have already dismantled fraud triangle, if you don’t have the opportunity to commit fraud you look for alternative ,so removing opportunity from fraud triangle is the major thing that should be done now, so that is  the work CIFIAN has come to do now, that’s why we want people to apply to us. How is the absence of law backing the institute affecting it? The effect is to prevent quack because a lot of people having seen that forensic is lucrative  now, even those that are not forensic auditor now want to change their name to forensic, and that will bring quacks, and this  is exactly what some peoplewant to do, because they see that forensic is lucrative they also say they are forensic, you can’t be jack of all trade, no this is   era of professionalization, and that is  the reason charter institute of  taxation of Nigeria ,charter institute of management accountant today. Accounting practices aiding fraud, corruption in Nigeria - Forensic auditors Forensic auditors to Reps: Ignore ICAN's claims on CIFIAN bill CIFIAN's response over ICAN's rejection of legislative approval for the establishment of CIFIAN