The candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the governor of Rivers State, Barrister Nyesom Wike, was yesterday declared the winner of March 9 governorship election. Governor Wike, who won in 19 out of 21 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the State declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), polled 886,264 to defeat his closest rival, Biokpomabo Awara, of the African Alliance Congress (AAC) who scored 173,857 votes. The State INEC Returning Officer and the  Deputy Vice Chancellor of the Federal University, Otueke, Professor Teddy Adias,  while declaring the result, said the PDP scored the highest votes to emerge overall winner. The LGAs won by the  PDP candidate were Port Harcourt, Ikwere, Andoni, Eleme, Opobo -Nkoro, Bonny, Okirika, Omuma, Tai, Ahoada East, Emuoha, Etche, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni. Others were Obio-Akpor, Asari-Toru,  Ogu/Bolo, Ahoada west, Khana and Degema. The candidate of the African Alliance Congress (AAC) clinched victory in Akuku-Toru and Oyibo LGAs. Collation of election results was suspended by the INEC on March 10 as a result of violence that marred the election in different parts of the State. After a stakeholders meeting called by the Commission last week, the participants at the meeting agreed that collation of results should resume on Tuesday. Results from two LGAS  of Gokana and Abua/Oduah  were not collated because of the violence that erupted in the area. Meanwhile, the Rivers State PDP Chairman, Felix Obuah, has congratulated the Governor-elect on what he described as his well deserved and landslide victory. Obuah, while speaking shortly after the declaration of Governor Wike as the winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election, said the victory was not just for the governor and the PDP but a victory for all lovers of true democracy as well as the good people of Rivers State. He commended the State INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Ubo Effanga, security agencies and all those who ensured that peace and orderliness prevailed during the collation and announcement of the historic election results. In a related development, hundreds of supporters of the PDP took to the streets of Port Harcourt and its environs to celebrate the victory of Governor Wike at the poll. They gathered at the popular Polo Field to wine, drink and dance in celebration of the victory. Rivers: Wike wins Khana, Ahoada West LGAs Rivers results: Governor Wike leads in 17 out of 19 LGAs collated Rivers: Wike leads in 12 LGs as collation continues today