Security agencies should immediately investigate the presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar, over allegations that he hired the services of a United States lobby firm to advance his position on the outcome of the February 23 presidential election. Though Atiku had denied paying any money to lobbyists, the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) said it was maintaining its earlier stance that the PDP and its presidential candidate were out to pull down President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC government at all cost. The group, in statement yesterday, said that was part of the opposition’s desperation to clinch power. The president’s support group said it had been vindicated by the latest alleged treasonable move by Atiku to drag the US government into a purely Nigerian affair. The statement, signed by BCO’s Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Malam Gidado Ibrahim, said the police, Department of State Security (DSS) and other security agencies should not waste any more time in commissioning thorough investigation on the allegation that Atiku paid the United States firm $30,000 to help him unseat Buhari. Ibrahim said the great mass of Nigerians who thronged the polling units across the country to vote for President Buhari in the February 23 presidential poll was a clear message from the people that they were not ready to entrust the affairs of the country in the hands of corrupt politicians who were responsible for the hardship and abject poverty Nigeria was enmeshed in. He added: “But just like we have always said, Nigerians are aware that there is no better leader than President Buhari for now and that is why they voted massively for him. They know that after the bad precedence set by PDP in 16 years, no politician has so far shown strong political will to change the economic and social fortunes of this country like President Buhari. “We urge Nigerians to be wary of the antics of Atiku and his co-political travellers so as not to allow them drag the country back to the era of monumental corruption like what we saw in the 16 years of PDP misrule. “Selling out one’s country is treason and we members of the BCO have resolved that this allegation bordering on bribing foreign lobbyists to unseat President Buhari won’t go unpunished. So, we have resolved to draw the attention of security agencies to it.” Decrying the killings in Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina and Kogi states, the BCO spokesman accused the opposition of fueling insecurity in the country just to undermine the goodwill President Buhari enjoys among the Nigerian populace, all in a bid to install another corrupt regime.  Buhari’s directive on riggers makes opposition jittery - BCO Buhari’s Victory: ACPN wants government of national unity Atiku asks court to stop Buhari, security agencies from interfering with elections