The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has appealed to the federal government to tackle the rising killings across the country with empowerments and treat all Nigerians equally. The group at a one-year memorial colloquium hosted in memory of its former Director of Research and Statistics, Wale Salami, in Lagos, CACOL insisted that there is an urgent need to address issues of marginalisation, injustice and elevating one tribe or religion above others. CACOL Executive Director, Debo Adeniran, said it has become expedient for the federal government to expedite actions on how to empower the populace while at the same time works assiduously that justice is served to those who commit crimes to serve as deterrence to others. “In the quest for a better future with assurances that should enable Nigeria to take her rightful place in the comity of nations, Wale joined many other Nigerians from different walks of life to agitate for a system change. “He does not just believe in regime change because he is of the belief that if we are to re-position Nigeria, the system must be pro-people. “Even to address the on-going killings in the country, we at CACOL believe on people’s empowerment, justice and equity for all. “If Wale were to be alive today, he would have advocated the same thing. We believe the government has a lot to do to ensure that people no longer feel discriminated or guarantee equity where one religion or tribe is rated above others and are allowed to operate with impunity,” Adeniran said. The CACOL director also called on the government to fight corruption with the aim of inspiring hopes in the populace. “Issues of frustration, disappointments in the system among others are also probable factors contributing to the degenerating state of insecurity and killings,” he added while urging that all hands must be on deck to salvage the situation. ‘Rule of law is foundation of our democracy’ N78m website: Group tackles Fashola''s accusers Budget Padding: CSO calls for diligent investigation