The governorship, national and state Houses of Assembly election petitions tribunal in Kwara state said it has received two petitions so far over the just concluded general elections in the state. Speaking with in Ilorin on Tuesday, the secretary of the tribunal, Adamu Aliyu, said that the governorship petitions challenged qualification of governor-elect, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest the March 9 governorship election. The tribunal also said that it received only one petition on the state House of Assembly elections in the state. Aliyu, who said that the two governorship petitions were filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its governorship candidate, Razak Atunwa, added that the second petition was filed by the Action Alliance (AA). The petition of the PDP and its flag-bearer, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is the first respondent, said that the APC governor-elect, was at the time of the election, not qualified to contest the election. The petition also alleged that the governor-elect submitted to INEC an affidavit containing false information of a fundamental nature in aid of his qualification for the said election. In its own petition before the tribunal, in which the APC and INEC were joined as respondents, the AA said that the governor-elect was not duly elected by the majority of the lawful votes cast during the election. The petition said the election of Abdulrazaq was invalid by reasons of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. Also, the court said that it had received one State House of Assembly petition filed by Jimoh Raheem Agboola of the PDP, challenging qualification of the APC State Assembly member-elect for Ilorin South constituency, Sulaiman Shehu Abdulsalam. The court has not fixed date for the commencement of the hearing on the petitions. Election tribunal receives 5  petitions in Sokoto 19 Jigawa lawmakers get N199.5m vehicles 17 Jigawa lawmakers get N199.5m vehicles