Following the death of the Etsu Patigi, in Patigi local government area of Kwara state, the kingmakers, traditional title chiefs and the people of the town have warned against undue interference by some first class traditional rulers from Kwara North and South senatorial districts in the chieftaincy of Patigi, urging them to stay away from the contest so as not to instigate crisis. The Waziri of Patigi, Alhaji Rabiu Usman Ndalolo, who spoke on behalf of other chiefs expressed this at a consultative meeting held at the chamber of the legislative arm of Patigi local government on Tuesday. “We are here to discuss issues on who will succeed the late Etsu. “There is fear that Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed will soon announce the next Etsu Patigi; I believe that he will not do that. If he does, he is calling for revolution in this town. “There will be unrest if he goes contrary to the decision of the kingmakers and entire people of Patigi that the position should be rotated among the ruling houses. “There is also the dilemma that some traditional rulers from Kwara North and South are interfering on the successor of Etsu. “We, however, warn them to stay away from who will become the next Etsu, because we don’t interfere in their own affairs. I will personally bring this issue up and take it to Abuja for the intervention of the necessary authority”, Ndalolo said. Ndalolo, however, cautioned that any action contrary to the position of the kingmakers could ignite crisis in the community, just as he asked the state government not to go against the wishes of the people on the appointment of new Etsu. He also said that the stakeholders had resolved that all ruling houses should be entitled to the throne of Etsu Patigi by rotating the stool amongst the ruling houses. He insisted that only the five kingmakers under the chairmanship of the Ndeji Patigi, Alhaji Muhammed Ndeji were empowered to screen all the contestants and submit the names of the best candidates to the council chairman for onward transmission to the state ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. While addressing newsmen today, the Chairman of the kingmakers and Ndeji Patigi, Alh Muhammed Ndeji, said the kingmakers signed a pact after the demise of the late Etsu, Ibrahim Chatta Umar, that the kingship be rotated among the ruling houses. He added that the kingmakers submitted a list of the shortlisted candidates from other three ruling houses of Nakodi, Shaaba and Kpatako out of which the new Etsu would emerge to the council chairman. Etsu Patigi buried at country home Kwara: 15 Princes jostle for Etsu Patigi vacant stool Kwarans mourn Etsu Patigi’s demise