The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Lagos, yesterday, dismissed claims of some protesting ad hoc staff over payment of allowances for participating in the just concluded 2019 elections. The commission explained that it commenced payment of the ad hoc staff immediately after the conclusion of the election, saying those who were yet to receive their payment submitted incorrect account details. Daily Trust reports that some ad hoc staff from Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area (LGA) had staged a protest last Friday claiming the commission was not forthcoming on the payment of their allowances. Spokesman of Lagos INEC, Mr Femi Akinbiyi, however, in a statement yesterday, said some of the ad hoc staff had been going round some media houses claiming they had not been paid their allowances and spreading falsehood. He said, “Most of those claiming they have not been paid are either among those whose account details are not correct, and their banks have sent the money paid into such accounts back to the commission, or those that were not engaged but claimed to have been engaged by the commission.” He said one of the leaders of the protesters at Oshodi-Isolo LG had been paid even before the protest. Akinbiyi said: “In the course of the payment, it was discovered that the names submitted by some ad hoc staff were not the same as the account names of the bank account submitted. “We therefore enjoin those who genuinely worked with the commission in Lagos State and have not been paid to get in touch with the electoral officers of the local government where they claimed to have worked who will verify the claims which if found to be genuine, will send same to the accounts department of the commission for processing instead of going round media houses to lay claims.” According to him, payment of honoraria to ad hoc staff will continue until all engaged for the general elections are paid. “All those who were engaged and were not paid should also dialogue with the commission with proof, instead of spreading falsehood through the medium,” he said. INEC: Ad hoc staff protesting over allowances may have banking problems INEC ad-hoc staff protest over unpaid allowances Police tear-gas INEC Ad-hoc staff protesting nonpayment of election allowance in Enugu