About 95.7million of the total 151.4m subscribers’ SIM registration data claimed to have been registered by the telecoms operators in the country are currently undergoing scrubbing and verification, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said. The telecom industry regulator had said millions of subscribers have had their SIM data improperly captured by the telecoms operators, fuelling crimes like kidnapping in the country. It said it will no longer be business as usual for perpetrators of fraudulently registered Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) cards as the Commission will henceforth prosecute those indulging in the illegal activity for felony with a 25-year imprisonment as prescribed by law. But the telecoms operators retorted this on Tuesday, saying the country’s telecom industry regulator has indicted itself. Since the SIM registration exercise started in 2011, “A total of 151,449,837 registration data of subscribers have been processed, with only 55,749,652 records valid, making 63.2 per cent of the total records invalid based on invalid face capturing and fingerprints”, NCC had said. However, NCC said in a statement yesterday that improperly registered SIM cards are valid but only undergoing scrubbing and verifications. It said: ‘’The attention of the Nigerian Communications Commission has been drawn to media reports to the effect that 95.7million subscriber registrations are invalid. Understandably, this needs further clarification for the benefit of subscribers and other critical stakeholders who rely on subscriber registration data. ‘’The Commission therefore wishes to clarify that the process of scrubbing registration data submitted by operators is an ongoing one and that so far, over 60million records have been “scrubbed” successfully. “Scrubbing” in telecoms  parlance refers to the screening process of verifying biometric and personal information submitted by all operators in respect of each of their subscribers. ‘’Although the figures quoted in the news reports were disclosed at a Sensitization Workshop to illustrate the quality of initial data submissions, subsequent process enhancements by the NCC and operators have led to better quality submissions. The process is ongoing, and is constantly being reviewed for higher efficiency. NCC disclosed the outcome of its initial scrubbing exercise at the Sensitization Workshop in order to underscore the need for subscriber registration agents and operators to ensure strict adherence to the Subscriber Registration Regulations of 2011 as well as the technical specifications for subscriber registration.  95m subscribers have invalid SIM data – NCC SIM registration: Chaos as subscribers besiege MTN, Airtel offices MTN’s SIM re-registration raises concerns