Over 60 members of a legal group, Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience (BOBALAC), who promised to defend the Bauchi State Governor-elect, Senator Bala Mohammed, have submitted their names. BOBALAC, in a statement jointly signed by its Convener, Shipi Rabo Esq. and Secretary, Musa Abdullahi Esq, said it had redeemed the promise it made to mobilise 50 indigenous lawyers to defend the mandate of Bala Mohammed. “We have formally submitted the list of over 60 lawyers who have signed up and given their commitment for this selfless service to his excellency. This list of over 60 lawyers is led by a veteran in legal practice and a lawyer with over three decades of experience in the person of Malam Barrister Garba Hassan, the Principal Partner of G. Hassan & Co. Bauchi,” the group stated. The group further informed that the over 60 lawyers were aside four other members, Shipi Rabo, Jibrin S. Jibrin, A.G Isa and A.S Idris who were already on the team of 10 senior lawyers led by Chief Chris Uche (SAN) that would be defending the governor-elect at the tribunal. In another development, BOBALAC disclosed that as part of the promises it had made, it had concluded plans to commence a legal action against the Bauchi State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) against the award of N4.5bn contracts. According to the group, the suit was aimed at checking “frivolous and illegal” ways of creating unnecessary liabilities to the people of Bauchi State and the incoming administration. “This means that BOBALAC has again kept its promise to the governor-elect made on Saturday, April 13, to the effect that we shall do everything possible to assist the process of a smooth transition and healthy take-over of the helm of affairs in Bauchi State by the Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed-led incoming administration. We believe Bauchi State and the interest of its people shall come first in everything,” the group stated. Free legal service: Bala Mohammed receives names of over 60 lawyers Bauchi gov-elect: 5 SANs, others to defend me at tribunal Bauchi governor-elect gets five SANs, others to battle APC legal team at tribunal