The Senator Ahmed Lawan Media Support Group (SALMSG) has told the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) that it has no authority to speak on behalf of northern youths following its purported rejection of its principal to lead the 9th Senate. In a statement issued yesterday by Abdul Danladi Abuh on behalf of the SALMSG, he said the choice of Sen. Ahmed Lawan as President of the 9th Senate was beyond the decision of an individual leader of the APC. Abuh said contrary to claims by AYCF, the party had expressed support to the candidature of Lawan, including the National Working Committee, the presidency, majority of APC senators-elect and governors of the party who were the critical stakeholders with the right to intervene in the affairs of the party. “AYCF should also be aware that aside his endorsement by the party, Sen. Lawan has been actively engaging all senators-elect across party lines with the view of securing popular support. At the moment, he has succeeded in garnering the support of majority of senators-elect. This may not go down well with the Shettimas of this world and their ilk, but that’s the reality. “We are glad to note that while shouting ‘imposition’, the AYCF also arrogated itself the powers to impose Sen. Ali Ndume on the 9th Senate. This is a clear indication that the APC leadership was right by not trusting a member that hobnobs with groups sympathetic to the PDP, while trying to benefit from APC’s hard won electoral victory. “Mr. Shettima should wake from his slumber to the reality that the Sen. Lawan project is a popular moving train. A simple survey would have cleared Shettima’s doubt. We call on the AYCF and indeed all politically active groups across the country to key into the Lawan project for a productive ninth Senate. Shettima should not allow his group to become one that is perpetually on the losing side,” he said.  Group backs Lawan, Gbajabiamila for NASS leadership 9th Assembly: Group storms NASS, asks Goje to declare for Senate presidency Senate Presidency: Sen. Lawan enjoys popular support – Group