A former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC) and current Pro-Chancellor, Federal University of Lafia, Nasarawa State, Prof. Munzali Jibril, bares his mind on the 2019 elections and the state of insecurity in the country. Excerpts:  Daily Trust: What is your assessment of the 2019 General Elections? Prof. Munzali Jibril: I think they went very well, in my view. Nigerians have been complaining about inclusiveness, but I see it from a different perspective. So in my view the more honest and credible, fair and transparent the electoral process, the more we will see this inclusiveness, this reflection of the fragmentation of political opinion. So, I see it differently from what most people say that the inclusiveness is a sign of INEC’s incompetence. I don’t agree. I also see another pattern that the Nigerian electorate is becoming more and more sophisticated. Maybe it has always been, but because past elections were not truly reflective of the opinions of voters, we did not see this reflected. But now that the elections are more and more reflective of political opinion, we see voters for a certain presidential candidate in certain party but when it comes to the governorship they move somewhere else. This confuses people. I have heard people saying the presidential election must have been rigged, otherwise, how come that the governorship election is giving a different vote. These are human beings capable of making rational decisions. So my own view is that actually the elections have been conducted and they largely reflect the political opinion, but there is still room for improvement. The Nigerian politician is a different animal entirely. You can’t believe that there was a lot of rigging going in spite of technology, and all the very careful steps, articulated by INEC. DT: You said the elections were okay, yet the challenge of vote buying was widespread. What do you say to this despite the presence of security agents? Prof. Munzali: You see the issue of voter buying is a very big issue. And I don’t know how we are going to address it. I think we can minimize it so that it does not manifest so openly. But let me tell you, I went back to my hometown, Kano, to vote. And I saw it life in a way that you cannot really detect it, because it was very far away from the polling booths. People will be stationed at strategic points on the way to the polling booths, like half a kilometre. When you see a woman or a gentleman going for election you accost them and said you are the agent of so and so party and  give something to buy ‘pure water’, may be N200 or N500. If you talk to those voters, they would say whoever they voted for, until the cycle of four years is over, they would not benefit anything to the tune of that N200 or N500, so it is better to collect what is available now and solve the immediate problem. It is not within the vicinity of the voting area and it is a transaction between two people. The bottom line is poverty. People are poor, and for N200, they can sell their franchise, so the long term solution is to address the issue of poverty. And let us empower people economically and enlightened than that this vote and power that comes once in four years, should not be sold, because the consequences of bad governance can affect even the great grandchild. But the way it has been done openly like a car is parked within maybe 20 meters of the polling booths and I see people inside with money accosting voters and making transactions. And policeman were invited to investigate what was happening, they declined to do so. So, the long term solution is economic empowerment, enlightenment and education. But it is a very difficult problem to solve. DT: There were also widespread violence in Kano, Rivers and some places, despite the adequate preparations. Is there nothing that can be done to checkmate electoral violence and other malpractices? Prof. Munzali: I am shocked that this was happening. The bottom line is desperation by politicians who are already in government, and do see defeat facing them. They are ready to ward it off and also included people who are very desperate to get power. But in either case, the presence of security agents is supposed to be deterrence to violence. So the security agencies must remain neutral, so as to be able to confront those who perpetrate violence, whether it is the government or people trying to take over. DT: On the issue of security, apart from the farmer-herders clashes, widespread kidnapping has become the order of the day. Is this not an indictment on the administration that pledge security among its four cardinal principles? Prof. Munzali: It is a major challenge and escalated during the tenure of the current government. I believe that we need innovative and creative solutions and a very strong determination to wipe it out. In my view, it is not impossible within weeks or months to wipe it out. It is very difficult. If you study cases of kidnapping in other countries, you find out that it is a very complicated problem. And once people try it and they find it is a source of easy money, it is very difficult to stamp it out. And it is a very big network. Like you see the kidnapping along Kaduna-Abuja expressway, it is actually being controlled from Zamfara. But it is only now that Zamfara itself has become a hot spot for kidnapping. But the big bosses, who control the kidnapping on Kaduna-Abuja way, lived in Zamfara. But within intelligence, you can gather all the information and government has the power and the mechanism to be able to stamp it out. But you see, sometimes even security agencies are involved or agents are involved. Like there are stories of people kidnapped and then they are released. And the kidnappers escort them up to like 100 meters from next checkpoint, and they say to them. ‘If the policeman at that checkpoint ask you, tell them that we were the people who released you’ and then you see when negotiations are going on, on the telephone, to pay ransom. And you also involve the police. The police are always interested to know how much you have paid, which suggests that they probably have a commission to collect, which is a fraction or a percentage of the money paid. So they are always interested on how much did you pay. They always ask ‘how much did you pay, how much did you pay?’ That is their main interest after payment has been made. So, you see it is a very big problem. That is why you see at the beginning of the fight against kidnapping, all the police officers, in the stations between Kaduna and Abuja were transferred out, new people who are brought in and it took like six months before those new people also began to establish liaisons with the kidnappers. So government has to be continuously vigilant. NIM elects Prof. Munzali president Nigerians in U.S. to vote Clinton, predict her victory RE: THANK YOU PROF. RASHEED!