Elders and stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos are perturbed over the protracted crisis in the party, Daily Trust can report. This stemmed from the insistence of a chieftain of the party, Segun Adewale, as being the chairman of the party challenging the incumbent, Dr. Adegbola Dominic. Consistently, Adewale popularly known as Aeroland, had pronounced himself as the chairman even as he had taken over the party secretariat along Adekunle Fajuyi road in Ikeja GRA. The latest drama unfolded last week when he mobilised a large number of his supporters into the secretariat. Both the South-West chapter of the party and the state chapter have disowned Adewale, saying he was no longer a member of the party having contested the last governorship election in Ekiti under Action Democratic Party (ADP). Sources told Daily Trust, yesterday, that the party leaders and elders in the state were worried over what they called the “intransigence” of Adewale. They are, however, banking on the national leadership of the party to make a firm pronouncement on the leadership hullabaloo in the chapter, it was learnt. “The national secretariat is aware of the current crisis and I can tell you very soon, they are going to take a firm action on him. Everything will soon be in order,” said a source. Another party source said the party chieftains were worried that Adewale’s action could jeopardize the repositioning efforts of the party ahead of future elections. It would be recalled that some of the elders and leaders of the party met recently to review the failures of the party in the last election and resolved to unite all factions. But with Adewale still in the picture, the unification drive might be “inconsequential,” said a party leader. However, state chairman, Prince Muiz Dosumu, said the party would not be distracted by Adewale’s action, saying it would hasten the move to reposition the party. But Adewale has insisted his action was driven by the genuine desire to reposition the party and free it from moles who, he noted, had been aligning with the ruling APC to deny the PDP of its deserved victory. According to him, there was no going back in his determination to sanitize the party. Again, Adewale storms PDP secretariat, declares self Lagos chairman Police hands over Lagos PDP secretariat keys to Bode George Adewale proclaims self Lagos PDP chair for 2nd time