Over 300 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) including about 200 children displaced as a result of the recent round of killings in villages of Kajuru local government and the ethno-religious crisis that rocked Kasuwan Magani sometimes in 2018 got a life-line when a foundation presented relief materials to them. Arewa Trust learnt that while some have been at the private IDPs camp for just few months, others have spent close to a year at the camp without help on their food, medical and education needs. Rabi Salisu Ibrahim is the Founder of Arrida Relief Foundation and Orphanage Home, an NGO that caters for the needs of orphans, less privileged, youths and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). Speaking to newsmen shortly after the presentation of the materials, Ibrahim said, arrangements have equally been concluded to take medical outreach to the IDPs. “These are IDPs from Kajuru local government area, who are internally displaced in Igabi local government area. We are here to distribute some relief materials to them, in order to ease their hardship and the tension they are going through presently. “We got the relief materials from the Nigerian Customs Service. The materials we have brought, include rice, vegetable oil, pasta, semovita and other food items, including seasoning. Other items are soaps and mosquito nets. “Having noticed their health challenges, we have also concluded arrangement to bring medical outreach to them by next week. “Another thing we have observed is that, there are about 200 children here who are not attending any school. So, we have donated two rooms to them to be used as classrooms before the intervention of the government. Our plan is, by God’s grace, after this holiday, we are going to start school in this community,” she said. One of the IDPs and a beneficiary of the relief materials, Musa Isa, from Kajuru local government area said himself and his family of 10 were displaced due to what he described as alarming rate of kidnapping and killings in the village. “I am here because of incessant kidnapping and killings in our village, Kajuru station. I left the community at a time when kidnapping became very alarming, when gunmen started storming our villages in the broad daylight and kidnapping people. “I have been here with my family since about seven months ago. My two wives and seven children are all here. We have been surviving by the grace of God, but at least we thank God, there is no security threat here,” he explained. Another IDP, Rabi Mohammed, who was also displaced from Tantatu village, said she had to abandon their ancestral homes due to wanton waste of lives going on in the village. “We could no longer wait and allow some people to be playing kite with our lives. So, before the killing got to our turn, we had to leave. “There is certainly no place like home, but we thank God for the peace here. But, back at home, our children were going to school, but here there is no any school around. So, we want government to come to our aid by bringing school for us,” she appealed. She expressed appreciation, on behalf of the beneficiaries, to Arrida Relief Foundation for taking their case before the authorities and bringing relief materials to them. Meanwhile, Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, Kaduna state branch at the weekend said it would takeover the treatment of all pregnant women who were displaced by crisis in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The state chairman of NMA, Dr. Stephen Akau Kache, while making presentation of foodstuffs to the victims said association will continue to give medical assistance to the victims. “We have been told that there are pregnant women in the IDP camp and looking at their situations, they are not supposed to be where they are. We are going to liaise with our colleagues in both the private and public hospitals in order to give them better treatment. “We are also aware that among the IDPs, some of them are sick and need proper medical treatment besides the one being provided to them, this we intend to do by liaising with our colleagues in both private and public hospitals to be able to take care of them very well,” he said. Dr Kache explained further that members of the association would do their best to give professional treatment to those in need of their service, stressing that they are ready to serve humanity the best way they could. The  IDPs camp committee chairman, Mr Musa Magaji, who received the relief materials on behalf of the IDPs thanked members of the Nigerian Medical Association for the gesture. Also the Centre for Leadership and Strategy Development, ( Centre – LSD) has donated relief materials to victims of Kajuru crisis in Kaduna State. ‎Presentating the relief materials at the Kajuru IDP camp,  the Programme Coordinator, Centre – LSD, Uche Arisuku said the NGO was working under a project with the mandate to ensure peaceful coexistence among the diverse groups in the affected communities and in the state.  Benue to close IDP camps soon Women give birth to triplets, twins at Kajuru IDP camp Foundation donates relief materials to Durumi IDPs