Building materials dealers in Sokoto State have commended West African Ceramics Limited (WACL), manufacturer of the ROYAL brand of tiles, grouts and tile adhesives for the establishment of the Royal Exclusive Showroom in Sokoto. The dealers gave the commendation during the inauguration of the ROYAL Exclusive Showroom, a first of its kind, situated on the Sheikh Abdulrahman Sudais Road, Sokoto. Spokesman of WACL, Emmanuel Udoro, said in a statement that the partnership aimed to support government’s effort in reviving the manufacturing sector and encourage patronage of locally produced goods. “This would afford builders, project owners and other professional stakeholders the opportunity to reduce risk, lower the cost of projects and enjoy a one-stop shop experience of tile applications through the showroom which also serves as an experience centre beyond sales outlets,” Udoro said. Speaking during the commissioning ceremony of the showroom, the Managing Director, Ribalka Nig. Ltd, Alhaji Ribado Aliyu, said the showroom was first of its kind in Sokoto which had brought smiles to building materials dealers in Sokoto and neighboring towns and cities such as Kebbi and Gusau. “I am very excited about the establishment of the Royal Exclusive Showroom in Sokoto for various reasons. Firstly, it’s a first of its kind mega showroom in Sokoto. Secondly, dealers and customers have been saved a great deal of cost and risk as we usually travel all the way to faraway cities such as Kaduna and Kano to procure tiles. “Now, all that has been taken care of. We provided the base and warehousing while our partner, WACL, ensures goods are readily available through their formidable distribution resource,” Aliyu said. Also, the Admin Manager, WACL, Alhaji Abdulrahim Bello, who represent the General Manager, Mr. Bhaskar Rao, said, “The partnership with Ribalka Nig. Ltd was well thought out and stems from our corporate commitment to support development of affordable housing in Nigeria at large by ensuring Nigerians have access to quality, durable and reliable tile products that match quality of tiles imported from the Asian and European markets, at affordable prices yet satisfying their aesthetic values.” Affordability in value system key to affordable housing – Rao Royal Ceramics launches Lekki ‘Experience Centre’ Senator impressed by indigenous ceramics