Festus Keyamo, the director of strategic communications of President Muhammadu Buhari, 2019 presidential campaign, (Official spokesperson), on Monday, said that one does not need a WAEC certificate to become President in Nigeria. In a series of tweets, which he termed “free lecture”, Keyamo said said that Section 318 of the 1999 Constitution defined school certificate or its equivalent to mean primary 6 School Leaving Certificate plus the ability to just speak, write, understand and communicate in English language to the satisfaction of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. “Yes. Section 318 of the 1999 Constitution defines ‘School Certificate or its equivalent’ to mean primary 6 School Leaving Certificate plus the ability to just speak, write, understand and communicate in English language to the satisfaction of INEC. No WAEC certificate is needed “By the definition of “School Certificate or its equivalent” in section 318 of the 1999 constitution, you don’t need a WAEC certificate to become President or Governor, but if you present a FORGED WAEC or other certificate to INEC for any office you will be disqualified,” tweeted. Keyamo was reacting to the case of forgery of WAEC certificate by the Osun Governorship election candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Here are his tweets: Yes. Section 318 of the 1999 Constitution defines “School Certificate or its equivalent” to mean primary 6 School Leaving Certificate plus the ability to just speak, write, understand and communicate in English language to the satisfaction of INEC. No WAEC certificate is needed https://t.co/kUMUCZbF5i — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) April 14, 2019  By the definition of “School Certificate or its equivalent” in section 318 of the 1999 const. u don’t need a WAEC certificate to become President or Governor, but if you present a FORGED WAEC or other certificate to INEC for any office you will be disqualified. #OsunStateScenario — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) April 15, 2019  Forgery occurs when the supposed author of a document denies ever making it or denies its authenticity. WAEC has confirmed the authenticity of PMB’s certificate by issuing an attestation of it. Case closed. In #OsunCaseScenario WAEC has denied the authenticity. See d difference? — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) April 15, 2019  Let me end my free lecture series by saying that the crux of the matter is that if you don’t have a WAEC certificate, there’s no need to go ahead & forge one in a bid to be Governor or President. You can still be qualified, regardless. That’s the mistake made in #OsunCaseScenario — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) April 15, 2019  Certificate scandals threaten 2019 dreams Katsina APC Guber: Masari and his unending travail If anything happens to Buhari!