The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment has moved the projected fund for the development and creation of new Special Economic Zones (SEZs) from the proposed 2019 budget of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA). The introduction of an independent budget line for the same purpose under a new company, the Nigeria SEZ Investment Company Limited (NSEZCO), led to the recent rejection of the trade ministry’s budget by the Senate Committee on Trade and investment. The Federal Government had disclosed that N250 billion would be spent for the development of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) across the country and that would be captured in the budget over some years. N46.17 billion was included in the 2017 NEPZA budget for upgrading and establishment of new SEZs. NEPZA’s 2018 budget also captured about N40 billion for the same purpose. However, the trade ministry made provision of N42 billion in the 2019 budget for SEZs under the NSEZCO, a company incorporated as a limited liability company in the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). The Federal Government has 25 percent share in the company while other individuals have the balance of 75 percent. Document obtained by the Senate Committee on Trade and Investment showed that the other shareholders of the company are Dr. Bakari Wadinga, Mr. Olufemi Edun and Ms Oluwadara Owoyemi. The chairman of the committee sought to know from the minister how a ‘private’ company whose shares were limited to the owners got into the Federal Government’s appropriation bill. Daily Trust analysis showed that the ministry proposed in the 2019 budget for the company to spend N7 billion to execute capital projects at Lekki Model Industrial Park Phase 1, Lagos State and N2bn for projects in Sokoto Free Trade Zone, Sokoto State. The company will execute projects worth N4 billion in Funtua Cotton Cluster, Katsina State; N2 billion worth of projects in Benue Free Trade Zone, Benue State; and N7 billion at Enyimba Economic City Industrial Township 1. The company will also spend N2 billion to execute capital projects at Ibom Deep Sea Port and Industrial City Akwa Ibom State and another N2 billion at the Edo Industrial Park, Edo State. N10.09 billion was allocated for the capitalisation of Nigeria Special Economic Zone Investment Company Limited while N500 million was budgeted for projects in Bauchi Free Trade Zone, Bauchi State. Other capital projects include N2 billion for projects to be executed at Ogun-Guangdong Free Trade Zone, Ogun State; N500 million for Ebonyi Free Trade Zone, Ebonyi State; N500 million for Gombe Free Trade Zone, Gombe State; N2 billion for Nnewi Cluster, Anambra State; and N500 million for Kwara Free Trade Zone, Kwara State. The difficulty of moving the funds appropriated for the Special Economic Zones in the 2017 and 2018 budgets of NEPZA may have informed the decision of the trade minister, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, to introduce the fund independently under a privately incorporated company in the 2019 budget. Misunderstanding set in between NEPZA and the trade ministry last year when Dr. Enelamah instructed NEPZA to transfer part of the funds for SEZs to the private company. Investigation revealed that NEPZA had initiated the process of upgrading and establishing new SEZs across the country as indicated in the budget before the directive was received. Documents seen by Daily Trust showed that the trade minister wrote to the minister of finance requesting for the transfer of the 2017 appropriated funds for the project to the private company and in November, the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation wrote to NEPZA requesting “disposal instruction” to transfer N14.38 billion to the company as requested by the minister. The former managing director of NEPZA, Barrister Emmanuel Jime, sought the counsel of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice on the legality of allowing the trade minster transfer funds budgeted for NEPZA’s capital projects into a private company’s account. To advise NEPZA accordingly, the AGF got an explanation from the trade minister on the controversy. The minister’s response seen by our reporter indicated that the funds allocated in NEPZA’s budgets were for Made-in-Nigeria for Export (MINE), a project that is part of the SEZs and were only “domiciled” in NEPZA for ease of appropriation and not for NEPZA to implement the project by itself. The minister said the Nigeria Special Economic Zones Company, which he had requested a transfer of N14.38 billion be made into its account, was created as the vehicle for the implementation of the project. The minister said he requested the Budget Office to domicile the funds for the project in NEPZA’s 2017 and 2018 budgets because as at then, the private company had not been created. Dr. Okechukwu said he sought and got the approval of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for the transfer of the funds to the company. Sources within the NEPZA told Daily Trust that the authority was concerned that there was nowhere in the Executive Bill for 2017 and 2018 submitted by NEPZA through and in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment that proposals or provisions were made for the project. This may have informed the decision of the minister to allow the company feature in the 2019 budget to avoid the previous logjam with NEPZA. Meanwhile, the Senate and the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria have also waded into the controversy, with both kicking against the transfer of the funds. The Senate had on January 8, 2019, written to the Accountant-General of the Federation, insisting that on no account should the company be recognised “for the purpose of transferring the funds meant for NEPZA as requested by the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment (via a letter dated 22nd October, 2018).” The Senate urged the Accountant-General to release the funds “only” to NEPZA as they were “only budgeted for the NEPZA capital projects in the 2017 Appropriation and not an intervention fund.” Similarly, the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria had written to President Muhammadu Buhari to bring his attention to the development, which the association described as “a scam”. The association said there was no need to establish a new company to administer free trade zones in the country as it would amount to duplication of functions of NEPZA and too many expenses for the Federal Government to bear. How N14.5bn diversion controversy affects Nigeria’s export project Presidency clarifies status of SEZ investment company Enelamah admits N42bn budget for firm with incomplete investors’ diligence