The INEC has fixed November 2 for the conduct of governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States. This comes as the commission also declared that it would conduct the 2019 Post-Election Review exercise in May and June this year. The INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, spoke on this yesterday in separate statements at the end of the commission’s meeting in Abuja. “The Commission at its meeting held on Tuesday approved the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the Governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States which will hold in both States on Saturday 2nd November 2019. “The official notice for both elections will be issued on 1st August 2019, while political parties that intend to sponsor candidates are to hold their primaries for the nomination of such candidates from 2nd to 29th August 2019. Campaigns by Political Parties in public shall commence on 2nd August 2019 and end on 31st October 2019. “The parties sponsoring candidates are required to submit the list of their agents not later than 2nd October 2019. The stated timelines are in line with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended),” Okoye said. On the planned 2019 post-election review, Okoye said the commission approved a proposal to conduct an extensive review and debriefing on the 2019 general elections, in line with its existing practice. According to him, this is intended to evaluate the commission’s performance of the key activities of the general elections with a view to addressing identified challenges and strengthening operational and institutional capacities to conduct free, fair, credible and peaceful elections. He added that the commission had commenced work on a comprehensive report of the 2019 general elections and mandated its Electoral Institute to undertake detailed researches into various aspects of the elections. He said the commission hoped that the outcomes of the reviews and studies would feed into further electoral reforms and its preparations for impending and future elections.  INEC fixes dates for Kogi, Bayelsa governorship elections INEC fixes Nov. 2 for guber polls in Kogi, Bayelsa Now That 2019 Time Table is Out