The coming on stream of Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals will go a long way in bringing the much desired resolution to the unemployment crisis plaguing the nation as the company will engage about 2,000 personnel in the field of engineering alone. The Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, Mr. Devakumar Edwin, disclosed this while receiving officials of the Petroleum Trust Development Fund (PTDF) who paid a visit to the head office of Dangote Group in Lagos at the weekend. According to him, opportunities for thousands of indirect jobs are huge given that there is fertilizer and petrochemical complex within the refinery. He explained that the 650,000 barrels-per-day Dangote Refinery currently under construction, is 50 per cent bigger than the current largest single train refinery in the world; and has the latest technology to challenge any such plant in Europe and everywhere. Mr. Edwin, who also identified well-trained human capital as the most important aspect of any successful company, disclosed this during a chat with officials from the PTDF, on a visit to the Dangote Head Office in Lagos recently. Giving an overview of the Dangote Refinery to the visiting Head, Press & External Relations, PTDF, Mr. Kalu Otise and Mr. Lawal Ibrahim of the same unit, the Dangote boss said “although most refineries abroad tend towards mass production of diesel, the Dangote Refinery is designed to produce gasoline more than diesel, which is unique to us.’’ Concerning the refinery workforce, Edwin explained that “we adopted the highest level of employment standard from both Europe and America. On our manpower requirement, we got thousands of applications, and the applicants were put through a rigorous process and sent in batches to India and other countries for training.” Dangote refinery will transform, diversify Nigeria’s economy – Edwin Oba of Lagos commends Dangote on youth empowerment programme Dangote Refinery flags off skills scheme for youth in host communities