The Presidential Advisory Committee on the Elimination of Drug Abuse (PACEDA) has lamented the increasing rate of drug abuse in Nigeria, saying kidnappers now ask for ransom in money and drugs such as tramadol among others from victims’ relatives.  Brigadier-General Buba Mohammed Marwa (Rtd), chairman of the committee said this on Thursday during an advocacy visit to the Lagos State Ministry of health. According to him, kidnappers pay more attention to counting the drugs even before the money.  Drug abuse according to Marwa is worse than Boko Haram insurgency; noting that behind all the crises faced in Nigeria including kidnapping, robbery and killings among others is drug abuse. “We must come together to solve this problem because we believe it is not beyond redemption,” he said.  “Our job as PACEDA is to find solutions that are sustainability and implementable and we plan to complete our assignment by May 29 as we have met with agencies and other relevant stakeholders,” he said noting that the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) needs complete overhaul.  The agency according he said needs urgent help and overhaul not because there is anything wrong with its personnel or leadership but because it’s in a dire state with no personnel, no logistics, no vehicle, no money, no weapon in sufficient quantum and poor morale of staff among others.  While the committee stressed the need for more rehabilitation centres in the country, it suggested that the campaign against drug abuse be taken to primary schools and communities so as to catch them young.  Earlier, in her goodwill message, the senior special assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Mrs. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire lamented that the younger generation are increasingly getting involved in drugs. She charged parents to be more vigilant and know what is happening to their wards at every point in time; stressing that a lot of atrocities are committed under the influence of drugs. Drug abuse rate dropped to 1% in Kano state — NDLEA Drug abuse: Emir of Zazzau seeks judiciary support Our c’ttee will address all aspects of drug abuse — Marwa