A 35-year-old man, Akeem Akinsanya, was at the weekend shot dead in a scuffle between some suspected cultists and policemen from the Zone 2 Command Headquarters, Onikan, Lagos. The policemen were said to have gone to Obada Oki in Ogun State to effect the arrest of a suspected hoodlum, simply identified as Abu, but widely known by his nickname, Regal, said to be involved in series of crime in the area. It was learnt that while the policemen were on their way back to Lagos with the suspect, some thugs led by a notorious thug known in the area as Obasanjo, attacked them to forcefully free Abu. It was learnt that Akinsanya was fatally injured by a bullet fired by the police during the squabble and  died before he could be rushed to the hospital. The Zonal Public Relations Officer, Zone 2 command, Hausa Idris Adamu, who confirmed the incident, said that on April 21, 2019 at about 2pm, a team of operatives from the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS), Obada Oko area, Abeokuta, Ogun State, investigating an alleged case of unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition/cultism had gone to effect the arrest of one Abu, “a notorious cultist.” Adamu said Abu had been implicated by one Afeez Popoola, alias Level, who had been arrested and was being investigated by the police. The Zonal PRO described Abu as “a curator of arms and ammunition and also a member of the illegal Eiye confraternity operating in the Ifo axis of Ogun State.” According to Adamu, “Abu ‘Regal’ was arrested by the team around 3pm while in possession of one locally made pistol with cartridges kept in a handbag. The items were recovered by the police team. While the team was taking the suspect to the station with the recovered items, a renowned tout popularly known as Obasanjo, in company of a host of other suspected cult members, ambushed the team and launched an attack on them. “One Inspector Sunday Ogundapo (the team leader) who happened to be in possession of the recovered exhibits, was inflicted with machete injuries on his head. He was about to be dispossessed of his AK47 rifle and in the process of him struggling with the mob, a bullet was accidentally discharged, hitting one Akeem Akinsanya, who was fatally injured. “The remains of the deceased had been deposited at the Ifo General Hospital morgue for post mortem, while members of the gang had been arrested and are now under investigation.” The PPRO called on members of the general public to assist the police with any useful information that would assist the police in tracking and apprehending “cultists and other miscreants that are terrorising innocent citizens.” Police shoots man to escape mob attack 8 DSS operatives feared killed in Arepo operation Police arrest 25 suspects, declare Inspector missing over killing, arson in Ogun