Sen. Kabiru Gaya (APC-Kano) has on Thursday declared his intention to run for the office of the Deputy Senate President. Gaya, who won his re-election for the 9th Senate, announced the bid while briefing newsmen on Thursday in Abuja. While assuring his colleagues of inclusiveness, the lawmaker said he possessed the required qualification to contest for the position and to emerge winner. According to him, he is a ranking senator, having been in the senate since 2007. He also said as an Architect who designed prominent buildings around the country and having been a governor of Kano State, he was qualified to occupy the position. “I respect all the senators-elect. I am eligible and the most ranking senator from the North-West contesting for the position. “I am qualified based on ranking because in the Senate we respect ranking. I am eligible and the most ranking senator for the North-West. “As an architect and as a consultant, my office then, designed the ship house and courts in Abuja and so many other projects like the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) branches across the country. “I started politics in 1982. I was a member of the leadership from 2007. I was the Deputy Minority Whip and Chairman of many committees and currently the Chairman, Committee on Works. “And as chairman committee on works, I have gone round 33 states of the federation on oversight. So, I am fully qualified for the position. ” I am also currently the Vice Chairman, Inter Parliamentary Union(IPU), Africa and this is a plus to my CV,” he said. On concerns that his intention negates zoning arrangement, Gaya said: ” My emergence as deputy senate president is a matter of balancing.” “We have the Vice President from the South and we are giving the South West the Speaker. So, there is nothing wrong with having President Muhammadu Buhari and deputy senate president from the same zone,” he said. He said he was consulting within and outside his zone to get the support of all those concerned, particularly the lawmakers. “I do not believe we should go for election divided. I believe the party will sort that out before the election. We should respect ranking and the ability to perform and I believe I can perform. “If we are divided, it will be catastrophic. So, I am appealing to my colleagues who are interested to step down for me, so we will be able to work in the interest of the senate and Nigeria. ” I solicit for prayers from all religious leaders for my emergence, as I promise to work for better life for Nigerians. “I respect all the senators, particularly the ones from the North-West. I congratulate them for emerging winners in the election. “They are people who are ranking in their own rights as former governors and professionals in different fields.(NAN) Race for Speakership: PDP, Reps in dirty schemes  -  How David Mark made his way back More lawmakers-elect eye  N/Assembly leadership positions Don’t micro-zone NASS leadership to individuals – Hon Kumalia