Facebook said it has made strides in its efforts to prevent online abuses in the Indian national election that starts this week, however, acknowledged that gaps remain in its “election integrity’’ efforts. During a media tour of the company’s election operations centre at its Menlo Park headquarters in California on Friday, company officials touted new fact-checking efforts for suppressing misinformation and technological advances. The new fact-checking such as the ability to detect when videos had been doctored. However, Katie Harbath, Facebook’s Public Policy Director for global elections, said measures, including a better system for verifying the buyers of political advertisements, remained imperfect. Harbath, however, called for more government regulation of ad-spending disclosures. Excoriated for failing to stop Russian manipulation in the 2016 U.S. presidential vote, Facebook has ramped up efforts to prevent abuses in subsequent elections, including the 2018 American midterms and the recent Brazilian and Mexican contests. Governments in many countries, including India and the UK, are contemplating strict new regulations for social media companies. India, where Facebook has more users than in any other country, is shaping up as a major test. On April 1, the company said it had removed over 500 accounts and 138 pages linked to India’s opposition Congress party for “coordinated inauthentic behaviour. It also took down a page with 2 million followers which, according to Facebook’s review partner Atlantic Council think tank, was “pro-BJP’’ (India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party) and a supporter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Harbath said the company can now quickly detect viral, politically sensitive stories and refer them for fact-checking by outside organisations. The officials also touted heavy investment in technology for detecting doctored videos and text inside pictures. They, however, acknowledged that they have been unable to stop some duplicates of videos that have been identified as spurious. Facebook has partnered with seven fact-checkers in India. According to the company, if a post is found to be untrue, it reduces the circulation of such fake posts by over 80 per cent. It, however, said it has slightly modified versions of the same images, video or text can escape detection and spread further. (NAN) How fake news was weaponized in Nigeria’s elections Facebook’s preemptive control of election ads in Nigeria Elections : Facebook tightens rules for political adverts for Nigeria, others