The Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Jos has ordered INEC to release materials used for the governorship election for inspection by the PDP legal team. This followed the urgent application filed by the PDP counsels requesting the tribunal to compel INEC to release the materials and other documents for inspection. A statement by the Chairman Media and Publicity of the PDP campaign, Yiljap Abraham, said the tribunal also ordered INEC to release the certified true copies of the election results. “The three-member tribunal had two-members at the Monday session, but has yet to fix a date for its inaugural sitting. Meantime, the PDP legal team has filed 10 petitions before the tribunal handling the National Assembly and State House of Assembly cases. “They include two senatorial, three House of Representatives and five House of Assembly seats. These were all filed within the time specified and have been duly acknowledged. On the other hand, the PDP legal team has also been served with six processes on the election of five PDP National Assembly members-elect. “Three petitions concern seats from the Northern Senatorial zone and one each from the central and southern zones. The tribunal to handle the petitions is yet to sit. The legal team had earlier said that they had made ‘some interesting discoveries’ in the course of preparing the petitions,” the statement partly read. The statement pointed out that the governorship candidate of the PDP in the election, Senator Jeremiah Timbut Useni, hailed the tribunal ruling as a bold move in the pursuit of justice. The statement added that Useni appealed to party officials, stakeholders and supporters to remain strong in the hope that the mandate of Plateau people would ‘ultimately’ be reclaimed and that he would not abandon the struggle. Plateau: PDP obtains order compelling INEC to release election materials for inspection Plateau election petition tribunal orders INEC to release election materials to PDP for scrutiny FCT election tribunal to commence sitting on Tuesday