Managing Director of the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Captain Fola Akinkuotu yesterday acknowledged that there has been challenge with radio communication between pilots and air traffic controllers. Akinkuotu while interacting with Air Traffic Controllers (ATCs) and Pilots however said the agency would not relax until it achieved 100% seamless communication between ATCs and pilots. The interactive session with the theme, “Enhancing Safety of Flight Operations” was  organised by the Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers’ Association (NATCA) in collaboration with the Flight Crew Association of Nigeria (FCAN) and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE). Akinkuotu whose office has the responsibility of ensuring safe air navigation noted that the ground to air communication is not yet the best in Nigeria. He said, “Radio communication today is not the best. I’ve spent two years in NAMA and I thought I would have fixed this problem but I haven’t. Effort is being made and we are not going to stop because any air traffic communication that is not crisp clear is a recipe for confusion. “In the South-East, a lot of pilots have had to step on each other and ATCs because of poor communication and if you are foreign to the clime, that may make you categorize our airspace as unsafe. “I work for NAMA. Part of NAMA’S job is communication but we have not achieved what we set out to do. And so we are asking feedback from the users. We are not afraid of criticism but we enjoin you to make it civil. We beg, we implore, we beseech in the interest of safety to take things seriously and for our pilots to be more patient and understanding with the ATCs.” President NATCA, Abayomi Agoro also confirmed the same development, saying, “The present Controller-Pilot VHF Communication coverage of Nigeria’s airspace is a far cry from the required international standard but it is still work in progress with NAMA. Over the years, it has been quite herculean for Air Traffic Controllers to communicate effectively with pilots”. He also decried the state of control towers in locations such as Kaduna, Maiduguri, Ilorin, Yola, Sokoto, Benin, Katsina which are in very deplorable state “The case of Abuja Tower Elevator that suddenly dropped from the topmost floor to the ground is a sore point in Nigeria’s aviation industry. Even more worrisome is the threat of health hazard to ATCs who go through agony climbing 232 flights of stairs on a daily basis”.   NAMA moves to eliminate blind spots in airspace NAMA moves to address pilots, controllers’ communication problem Aviation: 66m euro radar project stalls over parts scarcity