Many passengers travelling by air for the Easter celebration are paying higher fares than normal to make last-minute bookings ahead of the festive holiday which commences today. The Federal Government had declared today (Friday) and Monday work-free days to commemorate Good Friday and Easter Sunday respectively. The busiest route remains Lagos-Abuja which has recorded the highest number of bookings. Checks by Daily Trust indicate that ticket prices increased by more than 50 per cent for passengers who did not book ahead. As at yesterday and Wednesday, the Lagos-Abuja fare for one way was between N40,000 and N45,000 on Air Peace and Arik Air as against N25,000 and N30,000. The airlines, however, said there was no adjustment with the air fares, but that the more people booked, the higher the price went. The spokesman of Air Peace, Chris Iwarah, explained that there were different classes of booking and that the classes automatically adjusted as more people booked. “So if early birds for instance book the 30 seats which are the lowest fares, the system automatically adjusts to the next available flight,” he said. Dana Air spokesman corroborated this, saying demand determined the kind of fares available. “That is why we usually encourage our guests to book early. Despite that, we have tried as much as possible to make our fares competitive without causing much strain on the passengers,” he said. Meanwhile, Air Peace, yesterday, said it would deploy its wide-body Boeing 777 aircraft for its domestic operations on the Port Harcourt-Abuja and Abuja-Port Harcourt routes on Easter Friday and Monday. In a statement, the Corporate Communication Manager of Air Peace, Mr. Chris Iwarah, said the carrier decided to deploy its Boeing 777 aircraft at Easter to “give Nigerians and the travelling public a taste of the luxury to expect on our international routes starting soon.’’ More airlines, cheaper air fares? Yuletide: Air fares fluctuate as harmattan haze disrupts flights operations nationwide Yuletide: Air fares fluctuate as harmattan haze disrupts flight operations