Frustrated by perceived non-performance of security agencies, Nigerians have been taking the law into their own hands, meting out on-the-spot sentences on alleged violators. Recently, there has been a spike on the deadly trend, causing Daily Trust Saturday to take a look. Only on Wednesday, April 24, 2019, a mob around Opolo area of Yenagoa in Bayelsa State set ablaze a 16-year-old armed robbery suspect, Samuel Abarimua. He was however promptly rescued by the police. According to witnesses, the mob accosted the teenager while he was attempting to rob people during business hour close to Surplus Value Supermarket along the Isaac Boro Expressway. They threw a tyre on him and subsequently poured a chemical substance to burn him while his accomplice who was said to be armed with a gun, escaped. During an on-the-spot interrogation by some police officers, Samuel mentioned the names of his gang members and promised to take the law enforcement officers to their houses. The teen suspect was lucky. In October 2012, four undergraduates of the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, were not so fortunate. The students, Ugonna Obuzor, Toku Lloyd, Tekena Elkannah, and Chiadika Biringa were stripped naked, stoned and burnt to death by a mob at Aluu in Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state after they were falsely accused of being robbers. However, after a protracted court case by parents of the deceased students, a High Court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State President by Justice Letam Nyordee, sentenced three persons, including a police sergeant, to death for the murder of the students. The court found the police sergeant, Lucky Orji, David Ogbada and Ikechukwu Amadi (aka Kapoon) guilty of the murder of the students. According to him, the prosecution counsel was able to prove beyond any reasonable doubt that the three persons were involved in the murder. Justice Nyordee said the video evidence provided by the prosecution was overwhelming proof that the three were actively involved in the murder of the students. He said that the convicted persons violated Section 319(1) of the Criminal Code, Cap. 37 Vol. 2 Laws of Rivers State of Nigeria, 1999. The judge said the killing of the students were unjustifiable and condemnable, adding that the victims were the hope and future of their families. He criticised the police and other security agencies for their failures to protect the lives of Nigerian citizens. The judge said it was unacceptable that the Joint Military Task Force, Aluu Police Post and the Isiopko Divisional Police Headquarters couldn’t mobilise to rescue the victims. The court judgment, the judge said, would serve as a deterrent to others who don’t have respect for human life. Twelve suspects were initially arraigned before the court for the murder but five of the suspects, including the traditional ruler of Umuokiri, Hassan Welewa, were discharged and acquitted based on the report of the state Director of Public Prosecution, (DPP). The court ruled that four of the defendants, Saviour Johnny, Abiodun Yusuf, Joshua Ekpe and Cyril Abang, proved their innocence in the case. However, cases of mobs taking the law into their own hands have resurged across the country, resulting in brutal, often fatal, cases of jungle justice. Rather than apprehend a suspect and hand over to the law enforcement agencies, people take instance, practical measure in dealing with the matters. Many who were spoken to by Daily Trust Saturday said it is perhaps as a result of a growing lack of confidence in law enforcement agencies by the public. In Katsina, Kaduna, and Zamfara states, in various reports, many affected communities have cried out that when kidnappers and bandits are apprehended by locals and handed over to law enforcement, they somehow “magically” find their way to freedom, returning to their evil ways. Sometimes they even return with fellow criminals in a reinforcement, for reprisal attacks of sorts. In August 2017, the Lagos State Police Command expressed concern over a spate of jungle justice that took place within a space of one week. The then Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Fatai Owoseni had warned residents against subjecting suspected criminals to jungle justice and described the act as “unlawful and barbaric.”  Three cases were recorded across Lagos at that time with angry residents threatening to attack security agents who attempted to stop them. In one of the cases, two alleged kidnappers were set ablaze on August 8, 2017 at Ajala Bus Stop, Ijaiye-Ojokoro along the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, with some nearby buildings vandalized. Then two days later, armed police officers battled to stop a mob attempting to lynch an alleged kidnapper accused of disguising as a destitute at Ile-Zik, along the same expressway. The next day, a young man was nearly mobbed at Isheri Olofin at Oraphetal bus stop along Igando-Iyana Iba expressway after a resident raised an alarm that he had a phone, gun and cash of about N400, 000 on him. However, before he could be lynched by the mob, the Divisional Police Officer of Idimu Police Division, SP Fayomi Solomon moved his men, rescued the man and took him to the station. During investigation, it was discovered that it was a false alarm as none of the items mentioned was with him. Owoseni who retired from the Police in December 2018 said acts of jungle justice are uncivilized and a manifestation of the erosion of moral values and a disregard to sanctity of human lives. In fact, it was not the best of times for mentally ill people in Lagos from 2017 to 2018 as angry youths descended on them over claims that they were rirualists. This had to do with the perception that some of them only disguised as mad people to commit various crimes. But cases of jungle justice seem unabated as only four months into the year, 24 people have been killed, 7 assaulted and tortured in sixteen states across Nigeria. Katsina, Lagos and Bayelsa have three cases each, Nasarawa and Gombe, 2 cases each while Anambra, Ondo, Delta, Ekiti, Edo, Enugu, Benue, Abia, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Kwara, Cross River and Oyo have a case each.  In a case in Edo, a lady was beaten and has pepper inserted into her private part. Further analysis of the cases by Daily Trust Saturday showed that Paschal Chinazor Onyilo, a Sound/Music Operator was killed in Umuoji, Anambra after he was mistakenly tagged a kidnapper, in Ondo, Kayode Michael was almost killed for scouting for female panties around Danjuma area of Akure. In Katsina, Malam Sani and one Hamisu Danjuma and one other were killed in Tsambe Tsauni village of Jibia Local Government Area on suspicion of  being informants to bandits, in Delta State, a suspected armed robber was killed at Gbarho in Ughelli North Local Government, while around Tin Can Island Port in Lagos, one Yusuf Ibrahim was killed mistakenly thought to be a battery thief. At Igirigiri area of Ado Ekiti, a man was burnt for seen collecting human faeces for alleged ritual purposes, in Enugu, one Ifesinachi Ukwueze of Isiagu Ibagwa in Igboeze South Local Government Area was killed on February 4 for allegedly killing his mother, while a man was killed in Makurdi, Benue State on February 11 over cult-related activity. In Lagos, a 26-year-old man Temitope Adeoye was killed by miscreants at Odo-Olowu along Oshodi-Apapa expressway over false allegation of robbery, the same for an unidentified man at Eziama in Abia State. In Karu, in the FCT, a motorcycle thief was killed on February 19 while a man was killed at Okota, Lagos, on February 23 for attempting to disrupt elections. In Effurun, Uvwie Local Government of Delta State, a man was stabbed to death along the PTI road for attempting to snatch a phone from a lady. Then a man was killed on March 18 at Mile 12, Lagos for trying to steal a bike. On March 20 in Oro, Kwara State, one Femi Tete was dragged out of a police station and killed by a mob while a man was killed at Akenpai, Yenogoa, Bayelsa State was burnt to death on March 21 after been caught in the process of butchering the body of a woman he allegedly killed. In Ugep in Yakurr Local Government Area of Cross River State, a man was set ablaze caught in the process of stealing a motorcycle. In another mob action, a woman was beaten to stupor in Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of Edo State for confessing to being a witch. The list is very long, and the circumstances equally gory. Security personnel also have their share of jungle justice, too. On Monday April 22, personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSDCDC) and a policeman were killed by a mob in Gombe after running into a procession of Boys’ Brigade, killing ten. Also on February 23, a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Federal Special anti-robbery Squad (F-SARS) in Bayelsa State, Kolawole Okunola, was severally attacked in Bassambiri in Nembe Local Government Area, when he was rescued by an army squad. The Force spokesman, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Frank Mba in response to prevalence of jungle justice in the country said the constitution does not permit citizens to take laws into their hands. He said the Police warn against citizen’s administration of any kind of punishment against alleged suspects of crimes noting that it would investigate and prosecute such cases when its attention is drawn it. On February 11, the acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu expressed deep concerns over increasing acts of impunity and jungle justice and all manner of dehumanising treatment meted out to Nigerians by unscrupulous persons. The IGP was appalled by an incident circulated on social media showing the unsavoury debasement and assault on one Odugu Blessing Dada of No. 77 Morka Street, Boji-boji Owa in Ika North East Local Government Area of Delta State. Adamu called on all Nigerians to steer-clear of human rights violations and all manner of impunity and jungle justice and to report all incidence to the nearest relevant authority. Data compiled by Haruna Ibrahim  Mob sets 16-year-old suspected robber ablaze in Bayelsa Suspected motorcycle thief set ablaze in Dabi ...Parades 20 in Benue