…cooperation will strengthen APC, Keyamo says  The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and ex- Senate Minority Leader Godswill Akpabio have reconciled. Festus Keyamo, the Director, Strategic Communications, APC Presidential Campaign Council, who disclosed this in a statement yesterday, said the reconciliation of the two frontline politicians will strengthen the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Daily Trust reports that the two former governors of Rivers and Akwa Ibom states were arch rivals in the past few years, a development that affected the fortunes of the APC in the South South. Keyamo said Amaechi and Akpabio met on Sunday and ironed out their perceived political differences. He said the meeting, which was at the instance of Senator Akpabio, was brokered by him and Alhaji Nasiru Danu, who was one of the Directors of Logistics of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and a long-time ally of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the meeting between Amaechi and Akpabio marked a new chapter of cooperation within the APC family. The meeting which took place at the private residence of Alhaji  Danu in the Asokoro region of Abuja lasted several hours where the leaders frankly and honestly talked about their various disagreements from their days as governors in PDP and in the then Nigerian Governors’ Forum. They also discussed and analysed the performance of the party in the South-South region in the just-concluded election and identified areas where things went wrong and how to improve those areas in future. In the end, both leaders agreed to work in unison for the overall interest of the party and the country. They promised to put behind them all perceived misgivings and give a positive direction to the teeming supporters of the party across the country. The two witnesses at the meeting were Alhaji Danu and Mr Keyamo. Lamido teases Amaechi at Council of State meeting Buhari to inaugurate APC Presidential Campaign Council Monday Tinubu, Dangote, Otedola make Buhari’s campaign council