The absence of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki, in court has again stalled hearing in the charge he is facing along with former Sokoto State governor, Attahiru Bafarawa. Dasuki and Bafarawa were arraigned along with former Minister of Finance (State), Bashir Yuguda, Bafarawa’s son, Sagir and Dalhatu Investment Limited, a firm said to be owned by the Bafarawas, on a 25-count charge bordering on criminal breach of trust, misappropriation of public funds to the tune of N19. 4 billion. At the resumed hearing yesterday, prosecution counsel, Oluwaleke Atolagbe told the court that when the case was adjourned at the last sitting, the Department of State Services (DSS), who has custody of Dasuki, was informed so that Dasuki could be brought to court. “However, while trying to remind DSS yesterday, we were informed that Dasuki said his case was not the one coming up today (Tuesday),” Atolagbe said, adding that efforts to get a hearing notice to be served on Dasuki on Monday proved abortive. He, therefore, urged the court for an adjournment and an order for a hearing notice to be issued and served on Dasuki. Dasuki’s lawyer, Adeola Adedipe, who did not object to the adjournment application, however, urged the court to give a long adjournment, most likely two months. He said this was because the lead counsel for Dasuki, Chief Joseph Daudu (SAN) was recuperating and it would take about two months for him to be ready to go ahead with the trial. Counsels for Yuguda and Bafarawa, Olajide Ayodele (SAN) and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) did not object to the application. However, Fagbemi added that the case, which he said would soon be celebrating its 4th anniversary, may not take off if the DSS is not cooperating with the prosecuting agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Upon agreement of all counsels, the trial judge, Justice Husseini Baba-Yusuf adjourned the matter to April 29 for hearing. Adjourn case against me indefinitely, Dasuki tells court N19.4bn arms funds : Court fixes April 29 for trial of Dasuki, others Dasuki, Bafarawa’s trial adjourned to Feb 15