There is almost an endless amount of literature or information circulating in various forms of how pensioners can do one thing or the other to remain fit, or more realistically, be near fit. Before writing further, it is useful to clarify that the fitness in focus here is not financial fitness for retirees. The discussion is on fitness of the body. Of course, financial fitness is just one of the tools that can contribute in keeping the elderly body fit where it is appropriately applied. A website for health matters defined fitness in this way: “Fitness does not only refer to being physically fit, but also refers to a person’s mental state as well. If a person is physically fit, but mentally unwell or troubled, he or she will not be able to function optimally. Mental fitness can only be achieved if your body is functioning well.” Going by that definition of fitness, a pensioner should do everything practical which has no negative side-effects that can keep the mind and body healthy and in the excellent functioning mode. To keep physical health up, a pensioner that can, should not sit down all day without moving the limbs. Unstressful movement within the compound or the neighborhood for half an hour will “oil” the joints. Where this is done regularly, the stiffness around the joints will ease off. If the pensioner is independently mobile, some household chores constitute a tool for mildly exercising the body. Cleaning the rooms, removing cobwebs and picking bits of sweet and biscuits wrappers dropped by the playful grandchildren will improve blood circulation. Normal blood circulation is a vital element in positive physical and mental well-being. I have seen 70 year-old masons on building cites, some working on their farms and others actively involved in commodity trading at that age, or older. The physical activities keep the body fit, while the income generated through that keeps the pockets fit. A case of double gain. For the retirees that have the means, planting and caring for an orchard by participating in the physical work on the plantation, will immediately yield fruits for their health. Later, the pensioner in horticulture will pluck and eat fruits from the trees, which will contribute in keeping him physically and mentally fit. An entry in a health website justified the simple and easy-to-do activities listed earlier. It says : “A balanced diet and regular exercise are strongly linked to better health outcomes in seniors.” Balanced diet is a very significant issue for pensioners as poor diet reportedly kills more people than smoking or high blood pressure around the world, including Nigeria. This throws up a temptation to move this item toward focusing on food, diet, eating habits, time for eating, drinking enough water or eating fruits harvested from the pensioners orchard. Highlighting the benefits of eating fruits and vegetables is not drifting away from the  health care territory for the pensioners. Pensioner should avoid excessive worries, especially during long hours of loneliness, boredom and no family to fall back on. Social engagements, such as meeting old friends or taking up religious learning, are tools that can keep a retiree busy and free of the mental illness called depression. Retirement is not the equivalent of a death sentence. The initial challenges of lost income, more free time and probably less travels, opens up an opportunity to discover new worlds by the keen pensioner. Thinking positively, believing positively and acting positively as Chief Alex Akinyele was saying while on duty as the Chairman of the National Reconciliation Committee, is a major therapy that will help the retiree to easily cope with the world of idleness, of fewer visitors and less telephone calls. But it is a livable world. All it requires of the pensioner is applying the tools in this item and more  to remain in full physical and mental health. NAF personnel tasked on physical fitness Dancing can reverse the signs of aging– Study NAF Combat sports competition kicks off in Uyo