The PDP has claimed that agents of the ruling APC are planning to silence its candidate in the Osun State governorship election, Senator Ademola Adeleke. The party said the move was aimed at thwarting Adeleke and the PDP from continuing a case against the APC challenging the outcome of the election. Addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Adeleke’s life was in danger, alleging that the police was part of the plot to put the lawmaker out of circulation. “Given the series of unrelenting attacks, threats and the desperation now being exhibited by the APC, our party has become apprehensive that there are plots to silence Senator Adeleke as a way to terminate his effort to retrieve his governorship mandate in the court. “Part of the plot is to frame and arrest the Principal of his school, Ede Muslim High School, Ede, Mr. Kadili Adejare Abass, on trump-up charges that Senator Adeleke’s school testimonial was forged with the aim of using such fabrication as a basis to smear and clamp down on Senator Adeleke,” the PDP spokesman alleged. “On April 24, 2019, the Nigeria Police, in collaboration with the APC, arrested Mr. Abass, the Principal of the Ede Muslim High School, Ede, as well as the wife of the school’s registrar, Mrs. Rofiyat Oladepo, and her nine- month old baby. “Information available to the PDP shows that AIG Adeleye Oyebade of Zone II, Oshogbo, ordered the arrests of the innocent principal of the school and the registrar. “The PDP, therefore, calls on the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to call his men to order on issues related to Senator Adeleke’s determination to retrieve his governorship mandate which was stolen by the APC. “While the PDP further urges the IGP to order the immediate release of the innocent school principal, the wife of the school registrar and her baby, our party counsels the APC and their allies to end their schemes against Senator Adeleke, as they will all come to naught in the face of justice and the will of the people of Osun State,” the party said.  APC plotting coup against Adeleke to frustrate court case - PDP Court nullifies Adeleke's nomination for Osun guber polls over certificate forgery Osun guber: Court dismisses suit challenging Adeleke’s eligibility