The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has pegged contracting cycle for upstream operations from 24 months to 9 months with a strong commitment to further reduce the process to less than six months. The Group Managing of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, announced this in a presentation at the 12th Annual International Conference of the Nigerian Association for Energy Economics/International Association for Energy Economics (NAEE/IAEE). He said the process would allow for free flow of investments into the industry with far reaching effect across all tiers of its operation. Speaking on the theme: Energy Efficiency and Access Imperatives for Sustainable Development in Emerging Economies, the NNPC GMD who was represented by the NNPC Chief Operating Officer (COO), Ventures, Dr. Victor Babatunde Adeniran, said NNPC had been able to automate crude oil marketing process in the country. He said: “This process has helped to evaporate the mystery around the management and sale of Nigeria’s crude oil grades with introduction of innovative solutions triggering an ambiance of transparency and stakeholders’ confidence in the operations of the COMD. I can state without equivocation that, today at a click of a button, we can tell you how much crude is sold, at what price, who bought it and where it has gone to”. Baru listed other achievements of the corporation to include: transparency and accountability, increased crude oil production, improved nationwide fuel supply, joint venture cash call exit, renewed frontiers exploration and revamp of critical downstream infrastructure Earlier in his address, the President of the Nigerian Association for Energy Economics, Prof. Wumi Iledare, commended NNPC for its remarkable support in the past 12 years and appealed that the relationship be sustained to enable the professional body contribute meaningfully in generating solutions that the industry needs to grow the nation’s economy. Contracting cycle in oil sector now nine months – NNPC Stage set for 2019 summit on Nigerian petroleum EFCC: northwest zone recovers over N328bn in 1 year