Retired Air Commodore Luke C. Ochulor is the pioneer Military Administrator of Delta State. The current member of the Imo Council of Elders, Owerri Senatorial Zone as well as a strong member of Owerri Peoples Assembly, in this interview, speaks on the general elections and why the Imo governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, should not fall into traps like his predecessors in office. Excerpts: How would you rate the just concluded general elections? The critical mistake the National Assembly made was not to stick to the maximum of three political parties so that whoever wants to join politics would key into the programmes or code of ethics of one of the three existing parties. Rather, everybody was trying to float political parties even in villages simply because of the allowances coming from the Federal Government to all those political parties. Now, Nigeria has 91 registered political parties and you begin to ask where the country is heading. By the time the 2019 general elections were already drawing near, we had 91 political parties. This is unbelievable and irresponsible. I don’t care whoever may read this interview. It is highly irresponsible for a country to have 91 political parties. How do you manage them? Some of them in the just concluded 2019 elections were scoring one vote only. Meanwhile, they were all over the whole place campaigning and disturbing people’s peace of mind. And I looked at it and wondered if this is the way Nigeria wants to practice democracy. With 91 parties, you needed to see the INEC national chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, reading the scores of even those mushroom political parties that couldn’t go beyond the village level. So, I felt sad. Perhaps, many other Nigerians had talked about it. By the time Nigeria floated 91 political parties, and you look at the whole parties, only two of them seem to be in the field in the practical sense of it.  But with all these mushroom political parties, I couldn’t understand how we could get it right. Do you think Ihedioha’s election as governor would have been possible without the intervention of the Imo Elders Council? No, it wouldn’t have been possible because the role played by the Council of Elders of Orlu, Okigwe and Owerri zones was the main strong point or plank upon which Chief Ihedioha won the election. And you could see that almost everybody came out and insisted that the governor of Imo State must come from Owerri zone. They stood their ground and never cared what INEC or anybody was saying. Let me tell you, if any mistake had been made to rob Owerri zone of victory or this chance, the state would have been on fire because all the youths came out from all parts of Imo State and said this is the turn of Owerri zone and the PDP candidate being presented is credible. He has the wherewithal to handle a state. He has come a long way. He’s not like somebody who leaves school today and tomorrow wants to be a governor. He has travelled the road of leadership in Nigeria’s politics. How can you advise Ihedioha so that his government won’t fall into the same traps that caught his predecessors? My advice to Ihedioha cannot be in the newspapers because we believe that advice at that level must be heart-to-heart. But I know that there’s no way Ihedioha can fall into the abyss as it happened to his predecessors in  office. There’s no way he can make the very elementary mistakes being made by some state governors. Some governors regard their states as their personal enterprise to build dynasty and they were short-changing the people who elected them into office to manage their affairs. Some governors don’t care about the people they are governing. Before the election, you would have noticed that, especially in Imo state, the faces of the people had famine written on them and they were moving about like sheep without shepherd. I don’t think Ihedioha will fall into such traps, and mind you, he is there to right the wrongs of the past. But that will be a very difficult task because there’s nothing anybody can do without financial backing. But we hope that because of his integrity and astuteness, he will be able to invite the outside world to come and help him in rebuilding Imo State. That’s what I believe. I believe he won’t be a disappointment. The elders will also be guiding him – those who had travelled the road of leadership before and those who have seen what went on in Imo State in the past eight years. I have never seen a state being mismanaged like Imo State; just as if people are merely put into a quandary. I don’t think Ihedioha will make such silly mistakes. What we wish him is good health; that’s all because he will have people to help him present something useful to Nigerians about Imo State. A likely scenario in Imo, come 2019 My son in-law will contest Imo gov’ship in another party – Okorocha I won’t stop Nwosu, others from leaving APC - Okorocha