The Acting Director of Lagos State Fire Service, Rasaki Musibau, and six others who were allegedly abducted at Ikorodu by armed bandits last Saturday have all regained their freedom after an undisclosed amount allegedly running into several millions of Naira was paid as ransom, our reporter learnt from family sources. It was gathered that the victims were freed from their abductors den at about 11:45pm on Tuesday (April 9, 2019). No arrest has been made as at press time but the police said that men from the Command’s tactical unit are still combing the backwaters between Lagos and Ogun in search of the criminals. The Acting Lagos fire service boss and six others were allegedly kidnapped by armed bandits on April 6, 2019 at about 8:00pm, at Ketu-Ereyun, Ikorodu, Lagos state. They were said to have been taken to one of the militants’ camp deep inside the creeks between Epe and Ikorodu by the bandits. A family source hinted that an undisclosed amount running into several millions of Naira was paid as ransom before they were set free. Another source said that over N50 million was paid to the kidnappers. But the Lagos State Police Command was quiet over the payment of ransom to the bandits. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, in a statement on Wednesday, confirmed the release of the victims. “The Acting Lagos fire service boss and six others who were abducted were rescued unhurt. “Director of Lagos State Fire Service, Rasaki  Musibau, and six others kidnapped on April 9, 2019 at about 8:00pm, at Ketu-Ereyun, Ikorodu were released unhurt by their abductors. “The victims have since been reunited with their families. The Command’s Tactical teams are still in the creeks and forests combating the hoodlums. “A water-tight security measures are emplaced across the State to forestall future occurrence. “The Command deeply appreciate the supports of Lagos State Government and the good people of Lagos State who stood by us and also provided useful information that facilitated the prompt rescue of the victims. Together we will continue to make Lagos State one of the safest states in Nigeria,” the statement read. Police comb Ikorodu creeks in search for abducted Fire Service boss Lagos Fire Service boss, 6 others abducted States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits