The National Vice-Chairman (South-West) of the PDP, Dr Eddy Olafeso, has reiterated that Mr Segun Adewale who declared himself as the PDP chairman in Lagos State is not a member of the party. And as such, he cannot lay claim to the chairmanship of the party in the state, Olafeso said in an interview with our correspondent, yesterday. The party had earlier issued a release on Wednesday disowning Adewale, popularly known as Aeroland, who recently locked up the party secretariat along Adekunle Fajuyi Street, Ikeja GRA. But the South-West chairman confirmed that the party had effectively secured the control of the party secretariat, saying Dr Adegbola Dominic remains the chairman of the party in Lagos. “The era of thuggery is gone for good in our party. Our party is not for miscreants and we are not going to tolerate any miscreant in the party,” he said. Olafeso insisted that Adewale contested the last governorship election in Ekiti State under the Action Democratic Party (ADP) and that he has since ceased to be a member of the PDP. Meanwhile, Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, a chieftain of the PDP in Lagos and an aide to Chief Olabode George, a former deputy national chairman of the party, has condemned what he called, “the illiterate diatribes emanating from Adewale against Chief George”. He described Adewale as an ingrate who did not appreciate the huge support Bode George had given to him. Shodipe-Dosunmu, in a statement, said “Adewale who calls himself Aeroland is not a member of PDP. He is a bonafide member of ADP on whose platform he campaigned in a pitiable and disastrous and failed gubernatorial campaign in Ekiti in the recent election.” “BG equally gave this character money from his personal resources when this same Adewale campaigned for a Senate seat. “Now, is this the kind of character that should be locking up PDP secretariat in Lagos, talk less of claiming to be a PDP member! Quite sad indeed”. But Adewale in his reaction dismissed the allegations, saying there was never a time Bode George bailed him from SARS as insinuated neither did he contribute to his campaign when he ran for Senate. According to him, despite running for the governorship under ADP in Ekiti, he still remains a PDP member. PDP insists Osun guber primaries credible, says Adeleke eminently qualified S’West PDP demands fair deal in Osun, Ekiti elections S/West PDP: We’re ready for APC’s federal might