Residents of Magodo in Lagos at the weekend vowed to reduce to the barest minimum cases of fire outbreak that have rocked the community in the last few months. To this end, a fire safety seminar has been organised by the Magodo Phase 2 Muslim Association to acquaint the residents with tips and practices to prevent fire outbreaks or any domestic disaster. The Chairman of the Muslim Association, Alhaji Abdulraheem Musah, said the association was concerned about the incessant fire outbreaks and decided to organise the seminar to prevent and equip residents on the prevention and management of fire or other domestic accidents. The seminar focused on Strategic Fire Safety and Emergency Response Management, Home Accident and Response Management, and Prevention of Property Destruction by Fire. In attendance were religious bodies within and outside the estate, as well as other government estates like the Marwa Garden and Magodo Brooks. The State Director of Fire Service, Mr Rasaki Musbau; and General Manager of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Mr Adesina Tiamiyu charged the residents to cultivate safety habits in their respective houses. Musibau, who was represented by Mr Adesina Semiu Akanji, urged residents to see fire safety as their responsibility and advised them to have the right fire installations and put in place automatic fire detection alarm system. The Fire official also took the residents through practical fire-fighting demonstration using different fire-fighting equipment. The LASEMA GM, represented by the Director of Operations, Mr. Femi Giwa, also charged the Magodo residents to form a Community Response Unit to enable them respond to any unforeseen emergency. He informed them that the response time of LASEMA for emergency had been reduced from between 10-20 minutes to five to 10 minutes because of the decentralization of the LASEMA Response Units (LRU). The LASEMA boss said the agency would support any community with the right manpower development to set up a community response unit to minimize the destruction occasioned by fire disaster.  Fire fighters seek residents'' cooperation over frequent fire outbreaks in Lagos Fire fighters seek residents'' cooperation over frequent fire outbreaks in Lagos Be safety conscious as 2018 ends, LASEMA advises Lagos residents