No fewer than 30 persons were arrested Thursday as the Kano State Government sealed a popular hotel, Mbanefo Holiday Inn, located at Abeokuta road in Sabon Gari area of Kano over alleged human trafficking and other illegal activities. The closure followed a joint operation by the Kano State Tourism Management Board, the Nigerian Immigration Services, the Kano State Hizbah Board, the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking In Persons and the Nigerian Police. Addressing newsmen shortly after the operation, the managing director of the state tourism board, Alhaji Abdullahi Mu’azu Gwarzo, said the closure followed a directive by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, who received a report from the Office of the Secretary to the State government on the illegal activities conducted in the hotel. He added that the SSG’s report had indicated that about seven months ago, the Nigerian Immigration Services arrested 14 foreigners, including Cameroonians and Chadians, who were suspected to be on transit on the their way to France through human trafficking activities. Another illegal activity the hotel had been accused of was prostitution where underage school girls were lured into the hotel. He added that about nine days ago, the hotel management were invited and warned about the illegal activities taking place there to which they tendered apologies and promised to take corrective measures. He however said that the situation became worse thereafter. Gwarzo warned hotels and other tourism centre operators in the state to ensure strict compliance with stipulated guidelines of their operations as the state government would continue to monitor their activities and take strict measures on any erring operator. Reacting to the closure, the hotel manager, Mr Boniface Anayochukwu, said he had registered with the tourism board, but that his license was later revoked and was asked to reapply for another registration. He called on the state government to reopen the hotel as it had been in operation for the past 40 years contributing to the economy of the state. He said the management of the hotel would comply with the laid down rules. Kano Govt. seals popular hotel, arrests 19 sex workers, others KNSG seals hotel, arrests 19 sex workers, others Police clamp down affects 7, 363 Peace Corps personnel in Kano, Kaduna states