Investments in sectors like petroleum, power, aviation, agriculture and railways, featured prominently, at the meeting of the two leaders, Presidential spokesperson, Femi Adesina said in a statement issued at the end of the meeting. Also, on the front burners was the recharge of Lake Chad with water from the Congo Basin, so as to grant succour to the more than 30 million people adversely affected by the shrinkage of the lake over the years. “We invite you to invest in our refineries, pipelines, power sector, aviation, agriculture, education, and many others so that you can have your management here to oversee the investment. We need your expertise,” Buhari was quoted in the statement. On the receding Lake Chad, he said of the over 30 million people affected, more than half were in Nigeria, and it has contributed greatly to illegal migration, as innumerable youths dare the Sahara Desert and the Mediterranean Sea, in order to find safer shores in Europe. A large number dies in the process. “We need help with the recharge of Lake Chad, as it is not a project that the concerned countries can handle alone. “Recharging the lake will bring back fishing, farming, animal husbandry, and the youths won’t be attracted by insurgency or illegal migration. We want Qatar to be involved because of the humanitarian nature of the endeavour,” the president said. Sheikh Hamad Al-Thani said he was honoured and happy to be in Nigeria for the first time, stressing it was a reciprocal visit to the one paid to Qatar in 2016 by Buhari. “The relationship between our countries is very good. We just have to build on it. We share a lot of similarities in different areas. We need to enhance bilateral trade and economic cooperation. We are willing to do a lot more with Nigeria, and will continue to work on investment opportunities of mutual benefit,” he said. It was gathered that a committee has been constituted to work out the modalities for the implementation of the bilateral. Three years after President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to Doha, the Qatari’s capital, the Emir of the oil-rich country, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Althani was in Abuja yesterday. Buhari rallies Qatar on refineries, Lake Chad, others Buhari woos Qatar on investment, recharge of Lake Chad N2.8tr needed to revive Lake Chad - Buhari