The North East Consultative Forum (NECF) and five other groups in the geopolitical zone have endorsed Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje for the position of Senate President in the coming 9th Assembly. The NECF, after rising from an emergency meeting held at Zaranda Hotel, Bauchi on Wednesday, urged Goje to immediately declare for the position. The five other groups include North East Elders Mobilisation Forum, APC National Youth Caucus, Borno Discussion Circle, Gombe Political Associations and North East Youth Awareness for Good Governance. They said after a thorough assessment of the three contenders for the Senate Presidency from the North East, they settled on endorsed Goje, who chairs the Senate Appropriations Committee. Consequently, they wrote a letter dated April 17 to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on their endorsement of Goje. It will be recalled that the APC had endorsed current Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe) for the position of Senate President. In their letter titled: ‘North East stakeholders endorse Goje,’ the conveners, Barrister Mustapha Saidu and Alhaji Bello Ambo, commended APC for zoning the Senate Presidency to the North East. They said the zoning of the position to the geopolitical zone was a confirmation of the party’s commitment to reward hard work, following the zone’s contribution to the party’s victory in the just concluded general elections. “Following very wide consultations among stakeholders, party members and North East Consultative Forum and after careful assessment of his contribution to the party and Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, we hereby present to you, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje as the choice of the people of the North East for the Senate President of the 9th Assembly,” they said in the letter. Describing Goje as the candidate of the North East, they asked Oshiomhole to immediately review his position on Senator Ahmad Lawan who he had earlier recommended for the position. “Senator Goje is eminently respected among members of the National Assembly and the country for his immense contribution to the success of the APC in 2015 and 2019 general elections. “The landslide victory of the APC in Gombe state in the just concluded general elections is a sure testimony of is gallantry loyalty and commitment to APC. “It will serve the best interest of the party if Your Excellency and the party review your stance on the choice of Sen. Ahmad Lawan and allow for a level-playing field for all aspiring candidates from the North East zone to showcase themselves to their colleagues. “We therefore urge Sen Danjuma Goje to come forward and declare his interest to vie for the position of the President of the Senate in the ninth Assembly.” 9th Assembly: Group storms NASS, asks Goje to declare for Senate presidency Senate presidency: N’East groups storm NASS, drum support for Goje Ninth Assembly: APC recommends Lawan for Senate Presidency