A nongovernmental organization, iCreate Africa, in partnership with Kaduna Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA) and Mafita, is hosting a Grand Tournament of the finest technical and vocational skills in the North tagged iCreate Skills. A statement from Anne Dirkling, said the Skill Competition, billed to hold in Kaduna on April 26th-27th at Musa Yar’Adua Center, Murtala Mohammed Square, Kaduna, is an innovative strategy to curb the high youth unemployment, promote skill excellence and prepare youths for jobs of the future. By rebranding vocational skills, iCreate Africa is addressing the negative societal perspective affecting the acceptance of technical skill trades while upgrading the value of skilled professions. The competition, the statement added, is specially designed to project vocational skills in the mainstream and create opportunities for skilled artisans and professionals to showcase their skills for a chance to become iCreate Skill Champions representing Nigeria at the World Skills Competition in Kazan, Russia in August 2019. The skill competition showcases new technologies and best practices, designed to meet the skills demand of each region. Young skilled Nigerians aged 18-28 years will be competing in 15 skill trades including Carpentry, Tiling, Plumbing, Automobile Mechanic, Solar/Electrical Installations, Welding & Fabrication, Garment Making, Make-Up Art, Shoe and Leatherworks, Art, App Development, Graphics Design, Website Design, Robotics, and Cooking. The event will also feature exhibitions, entertainment, and panel discussions around TVET and youth empowerment. The iCreate Skills Kaduna will close on Saturday, April 27th with the iCreate Skill Awards to celebrate the Northern talents. Emerging winners, according to the statement, will be awarded with cash prizes of a total 7m Naira, tools and gifts, endorsement deals, internship and job placements, training and mentoring. The top 3 of each skill trade qualify to compete at the Final Competition in Lagos in December to be crowned as iCreate Skill Champion 2019 representing each trade. Group holds technology Olympiad in Abuja Man wins youth empowerment cooking competition Abuja hosts ICreateSkillFest to boost youth workforce