Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South East geopolitical zone of the country have  called on the national leadership of the party to review the zoning of the leadership of the 9th National Assembly so as to ensure  equity and fairness. They expressed dismay over what they regarded as “undue interference and unwholesome meddlesomeness” by forces from outside the zone in the affairs of the South East aimed at factionalizing the party in the zone, and warned those involved to desist from same. The party leaders endorsed the respective aspirations of those seeking National Assembly principal positions and urged that in their individual pursuit of same, they should be guided by the over-ridding need to preserve party cohesion, strengthen collective group interest and promote party discipline. The zonal leaders after a crucial meeting attended by all the prominent party  leaders from the zone, including ministers, National Assembly members-elect, and other party stalwarts advised the national leadership of the party to draw strength from the need to utilize the zoning of principal offices in the 9th  National Assembly to further deepen and strength the electoral appeal of the party, especially in parts of the country where it may be considered as weak. A communiqué read by the National Vice Chairman of APC, South East Zone, Emma Enuekwu, stated, “At all times, it should be borne in mind that since democracy is a dynamic process, our great party should remain a truly national political party with broad based support in all parts of the country, the South East Zone inclusive”. However,  the caucus set up two committees, including Contact Committee, chaired by the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, and Reconciliation Committee chaired by Emeka Wogu (Esq). The Contact Committee which has other members as the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; a retired DIG Azubuike Uda; Sen Chris Nwankwo; Mrs. Ugo Okoye and Hon. Austin Chukwukere, was charged with the responsibility of reaching out to the presidency and leaders of the party across the country to lobby for a favourable zoning to the South East. The Reconciliation Committee which has Mr. Sunny Onyeukwu as secretary, and 10 other members was charged with the responsibility of investigating the poor performance of the party in the zone during the last election and reconcile all aggrieved members as well as look out for the party’s areas of strength and weaknesses ahead of the 2023 general elections. Also, the leader of South East caucus of the party, Ogbonnaya Onu called non party members to work together so as to overcome her challenges in the zone. Former Governor of Abia State and Senator elect, Abia North senatorial district, Orji Uzor Kalu expressed dismay that some leaders of the party in the zone sabotaged the party in the last general elections by entering into agreement with sittng governors in the zone who deceitfully promised to allocate 25 percent of votes to the president. National Assembly  leadership: Will APC reverse position on zoning? I won’t choose leaders for N/Assembly – Buhari Ex-reps to APC:  Zone all N/Assembly positions now to avoid frictions