A group of supporters of Sen. Ali Ndume under the aegis of National Coalition in Defence of Democracy (NCDD) has called on all stakeholders including the APC National Working Committee (NWC) to provide a level playing ground for all its members in the northeast who deemed it fit to contest the office of Senate President in the 9th National Assembly. NCDD’s National Coordinator, Amb. Auwal Alhassan Gama, who made the call in Abuja on Monday, also appealed to all members-elect of the National Assembly, especially those of the upper chambers to support the call for Senator Ndume’s Senate Presidency. Gama, who said the coalition was part of the process that brought them onboard, expressed belief that Senator Ndume would not disappoint them. He said the coalition observed among other things that one of the reasons why the present government under President Muhammadu Buhari did not meet up with the expectations of many Nigerians in the areas of infrastructure and human development was a result of the sour relationship between the Executive and the Legislative arms of government. He said the development created setbacks in the areas of non full implementation of the budget and alteration on key-intended projects by the government. Gama said, “Gentlemen of the press, the above observation and the need to get it right this time around for the smooth running of the affairs of the government as we go into yet a new term of four years mandate given to President Buhari, GCFR and the ninth National Assembly by the Nigerian people is what informed this press conference. “The National Coalition in Defence of Democracy in its wisdom felt the need to call on the newly elected members of the upper chambers of the National Assembly irrespective of the political party to consider Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume, a three term Senator from Borno South Senatorial District, Borno State, a patriot, a detribalized Nigerian and an experienced member of the National Assembly who has contributed to the growth of our democracy for the position of the President of the Nigerian Senate. “The decision to call for Support for Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume’s emergence as the next Senate President is borne out of our desire for a healthy working relationship between the Executives and the Legislature for a better delivery of democratic dividends. “It is our believe that he will bring his matured sense of reasoning, experience and fear of God into play as the Chairman of the National Assembly; he is one politician we know and trust to unite all interests in the National Assembly.” The coalition, however, saluted the courage and goodwill of the presidency in allowing the independence of all arms of government. Senate presidency: How not to canvass for senators votes Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency Ekweremadu: South-East Reps to hold Ndume responsible