The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, has urged the Federal Government to evolve mechanism for resolving all issues between politics and religion in the country. The Sultan made the call yesterday in Abuja at the launching and public presentation of the 240-page “Voice of MURIC” Volume 1, written by Prof. Ishaq Akintola, the Director, Muslim Right Concern (MURIC). The Sultan represented by the Emir of Keffi and Chancellor, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Dr. Shehu Chindo Yamusa III, expressed concern over how religions are being misused at the expense of national peace and cohesion. “I call on government to tackle all concrete issues of interaction between politics and religion by evolving a mechanism for a fair solution to revolving Nigeria problems towards achieving peaceful coexistence. “To our religious groups in Nigeria who form cabal and groups claiming to be representatives of their groups and thereby facilitating their access to government using religious channels to harmonise their parochial interest. I therefore, advise you to support the government by preaching to your faithful if we must have a great Nigeria,” he said. The Sultan, who also urged MURIC to preach unity and justice among Muslims as well as act based on constitutional framework, said that the proliferation of denominations in Islam had created a paradigm shift of hatred among the Islamic brotherhood. He said, “It is quite devastating, that our noble faith’s integrity has been destroyed by some religion miscreants, if we are not mindful, the Day of Judgment may demand such answers from us.” The Chairman of the occasion and Yariman Zazzau, , Alhaji Mohammed Ja’afaru, commended MURIC for its efforts towards depending the right and interest of Muslims in the country. Delivering the keynote, Asst. Prof. Rafatu Abdulhameed, of the University of Abuja, urged government at all levels to create more awareness on the right of Muslims women to wear Hijab without being harassed by anybody. She also commended MURIC for championing the course of depending the right and interest of Muslim women in the country. The Author and Director of MURIC, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, said the book was a compilation of press statements containing the interventions of MURIC in Nigeria’s socio-economic and religious affairs; and also a compendium of the struggle for Muslim freedom in Nigeria. He restated the commitment of the organisation to continue to educate and unite the Muslims and to resist any attempt to infringe on their rights in the country. Sultan wants government hand in religious, political interactions The Sultan, Nigerian Muslims and Boko Haram Sultan donates school to Bauchi community, warns politicians against fuelling hatred