Fresh facts have emerged on how supposed Pastor, one Prince Ezuma Chizendere, whom Police said is the General Overseer of the Jesus Intervention Household Ministry, was trailed and arrested after infected 15 teenage boys with HIV virus. The Police said that the Imo state born gay Pastor had been having carnal knowledge of teenage boys through the anus knowing fully well that he was HIV positive, an act which is against the Law of the land. The police said that the suspect was out to infect as many boys as possible as he pays his victims the sum of N2,000 each after sex. It was learnt that the bubble busted after some neighbours reported the matter to the police. It was also learnt that the parents were pained seeing the number of school children go in and out of the suspect’s apartment without any inkling of what was going on. Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu said that the hunt for the suspect began sometime on January 22, 2019, after a case of defilement of an unnamed minor was reported at the Ejigbo Police station following which one Prince Chinecherem, a HIV positive patient was arrested and charged to court for penetrating the teenager’s anus and infecting him with the deadly HIV virus. Muazu said that investigation carried out revealed that Reverend Prince Ezuma Chizemdere, was part of the syndicate defiling teenagers in the community. “Meanwhile, on getting to learn of the arrest and arraignment of Prince Chinecherem, Reverend Pastor Prince Ezuma Chizendere reportedly disappeared into thin air. Frantic efforts by Police detectives attached to Ejigbo Division to track down the fleeing ‘man of God’ met the brick wall. Several undercover visits to the church with a view to track him were also not successful either as he was not always in service. However, the bubble burst on March 21, 2019, after news of Reverend Ezuma’s presence filtered into the ears of the Divisional Police Officer Ejigbo, CSP Bisi Okuwobi who promptly mobilized her men and stormed the resident few seconds to mid-night” he added The Lagos State Police boss said that the Pastor and some unsuspecting occupants simply ushered the police to the door of his apartment. But the cunning Pastor having smelt a rat, told his unwanted visitors that he was coming to open the door for them after repeated knocks,. “I am coming please, give me a minute” he reportedly told the midnight visitors; not knowing that at this time, he was busy burrowing a hole into the ceiling and curled into another man’s apartment’s ceiling. One hour on, the Police detective who were becoming curious having laid siege to the building and environs had to force open the door only to meet empty apartment. “But when I looked up, I discovered that the Pastor had broken part of the ceiling and climbed into it, he even meandered into another man’s apartment’s ceiling. So while we were calling him out, he no longer responded; that was when we knew he could be hiding in the ceiling and thereafter, he was arrested,” he said 