The National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has debunked insinuation that his support for the position of both President Muhammadu Buhari and the party on lawmakers who should lead the next National Assembly is for ulterior motive. Tinubu, in a statement signed by his spokesman, Tunde Rahman, said  his mind, heart and efforts were focused on backing the APC and President Buhari in achieving their shared vision of a flourishing economy and a prosperous people. Tinubu was responding to news reports that he was meddling in the APC’s nomination process for the National Assembly leadership positions in order to position himself for a presidential run in 2023. The APC national leader said he would have committed a terrible blunder by navigating against the president’s position. He said those who cast aspersions at him were in reality bucking against the stated position of President Buhari. He, however urged ‘’rumour-mongers’’  to court greater discipline and wisdom, adding that there was no action a person could take that constituted a political guarantee as to what may come four years from now. “Asiwaju is neither inclined, nor sufficiently naïve, to take his eye off the present in the futile attempt to peer through the thick fog that is the future,” the statement said. While noting that the National Assembly positions were important to the fulfilment of the president’s agenda, he lamented that a painful lesson was learned in this respect in the last four years. “With the Senate leadership usurped by regressive elitists, that chamber constituted a brake on progress and good governance. The Senate leadership, and to a lesser degree the House leadership, stymied APC legislative initiatives while attempting to hoist noxious, reactionary and self-interested legislation on the nation,” the statement read. It also alleged that the ‘’outgoing Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara and their ilk, high jacked the budget process these past four years.’’ The APC leader further alleged that the national budgets were delayed and distorted as these actors repeatedly sought to pad budgets with pet projects that would profit them. Tinubu added that the outgoing National Assembly leaders cut funds intended to prosper projects that would have benefitted the average person. He alleged that after four years of their antics halting the progress of government, “we should do all we can to prevent a repeat of their maligned control of the National Assembly.” He pointed out that in 2015, Senator Saraki finagled his way into the Senate presidency. “He planted himself at the apex of legislative power. But his actions as Senate president showed a man devoid of compassion for the average Nigerian. All he cared for was power and position.” “Soon he will be deprived of both. House Speaker Dogara has fared only slightly better. Occupying these positions is not a guarantee of future success. It is only a guarantee of present duty,” the statement added. Between Saraki, Tinubu: Who laughs last? I won’t choose leaders for N/Assembly – Buhari We didn’t discuss N/Assembly leadership  with Tinubu — Kawu