A Coalition of civil society groups on Monday said desperation by politicians and massive deployment of security operatives contributed to the lapses witnessed during the 2019 election. In a reports which was unveiled on Monday, the CSOs faulted attempts by politicians to put the blame of the hitches witnessed during the elections solely at the doorsteps of the electoral body. The report which is summary of the 2019 election by the coalition of CSOs, led by the Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) claimed there was an institutional conspiracy by political class and state actors to sabotage INEC’s preparations and processes. The report identified vote buying, violent attacks on perceived opponents, intimidation and abduction of INEC officials, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes and papers to burning up of INEC offices and electoral  materials as some of the ways the political class ruined the election. The report stated in part, “The politicians, their agents and thugs constituted the greatest menace in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. From brazen acts of vote buying, violent attacks on perceived opponents, intimidation and abduction of INEC officials, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes and papers to burning up of INEC offices and electoral  materials in Plateau, Anambra, AkwaIbom, Imo, Benue and Abia states, the political parties and politicians showed their desperation for power. “The recruitment of thugs by the political class from one part of the country to another before the elections evidenced by the arrest of  young men travelling enmass at Uyo was as never seen in the history of our elections. “The violence that followed the elections was as a result of the hate speeches by the political class at campaigns.Most political party agents seen on the field did not have proper identification tags from INEC, the parties printed their own tags for their agents. It has become a recurrent problem of the political parties not following the guidelines for party agents accreditation. The report said under such circumstances, there was little the INEC could do since it doesn’t control the security apparatus and other relevant institutions such as Nigeria Air Force, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which are key stakeholders in the electoral process. In her address during the unveiling, CTA acting executive director, Faith Nwadishi commended some INEC staff for their courage and refusal to be bought over by politicians. Observers to politicians: Respect rule of law Bayelsa: Coalition calls for prosecution of 2015 electoral offenders Gov. Ortom receives Certificate of Return, vows to work with Buhari