Nigeria’s foremost air carrier, Air Peace, yesterday, set a continental record when it ordered for 10 brand new Embraer 195-E2 aircraft. The deal which was unveiled during Embraer’s Business Meeting with the Aviation World in Port Louis, Mauritius, makes Air Peace, West and Central Africa’s biggest airline, the first to order the brand of jets in the whole of Africa. This qualifies the carrier as the official launch customer of the brand of aircraft in Africa. The order comprises purchase rights for a further 20 E195-E2 jets. The aircraft is a 124-seater jet in dual class and 146-seater jet in single class configurations. With all purchase rights exercised, the contract has a value of $2.12bn based on current list prices, a statement indicated. The airline had earlier in September, 2018, ordered for 10 brand new aircraft from Boeing which has increased its fleet to 37. When the two orders are delivered, the airline would have increased its fleet to 67, even as it recently acquired and registered the Boeing 777 aircraft in the country. Three of the four wide-body aircraft it acquired for its long-haul operations to Dubai, Sharjah, Johannesburg, London, Houston, Guangzhou and Mumbai have so far been delivered. Air Peace Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Allen Onyema, who spoke in Port Louis, said, “Embraer’s new E195-E2 presents us with a marvel of economic performance. It is also great that we will be the first E2 operator on the African continent. We already have the ERJ145s in our fleet, so we understand the high standards of Embraer products.” Mr. Onyema said the E195-E2 aircraft would strengthen Air Peace’s drive to deploy the right kinds of aircraft to underserved and unserved domestic and regional routes under its no-city-left-behind project. Onyema commended President Muhammadu Buhari for creating an enabling environment for the growth of aviation in Nigeria through waving customs duties on commercial aircraft, engines and spares, as well as granting Value Added Tax (VAT) waiver. The Vice President Sales Africa of Embraer Commercial Aviation, Mr. Raul Villaron, said, “Air Peace embodies the kind of pioneering spirit Embraer loves. The airline was established to bring highly skilled work opportunities to the people of Nigeria, boosting connectivity, and therefore the economy in the region. Air Peace has delivered on both aims, while at the same time developing a fast-growing successful airline. It’s great to have them on board.” 2019: Air Peace to fly Dubai, London, other routes ‘We’ll start international flights with 4 jumbo jets’ Air Peace pledges to sustain safety standards