Local councils in Osun State have been charged to adopt the Community-Driven Development approach in providing social amenities to local communities in the state. The General Manager of the Osun State Agency for Community and Social Development Project (Osun-CSDP), Mrs Funmi Abokede, gave the charge in Osogbo during the status review of the development projects in the communities across the state. Abokede explained that the review meeting was aimed at promoting accountable governance and better public service delivery.  The projects reviewed at the meeting included boreholes, transformers for electrification, health centres, roads, civic centres, community libraries and vulnerable groups. Abokede explained that the quarterly review was meant to assess the performance of CSDP-assisted micro projects and to evaluate the use of the Community-Driven Development approach for public service delivery. The Council Managers and Desk Officers who were at the quarterly review identified inadequate funding as a major factor hampering the provision of social amenities in the local communities in the state. The CMs and DOs from the 30 local government areas and 38 local council development areas, Administrative Offices and Area Councils highlighted their activities towards the maintenance and functionality of CSDP-assisted projects. Abokede added that the performance review was an innovative strategy to monitor how public resources deployed to deliver services to the citizens were achieving the objectives. She said the review was a social accountability platform anchored on constructive engagement. The Finance and Administration Manager of Osun CSDP, Mr Akin Ogunsakin, charged the Council Managers and the Desk Officers to strengthen the Community-Driven Development initiative by carrying the community people along adequately and ensure that the citizens take ownership of the projects.  ‘Bottom-up approach best for community devt’ Osun CSDP GM harps-on Bottom-up approach to community development World Bank executes 62 community development projects in Borno