A trader, Mrs Adejoke Adepoju on Monday begged a grade C customary court sitting in Mapo area of Ibadan in Oyo state to dissolve her seven-year-old marriage for laziness and self-centeredness on the part of her husband, Rasheed Adepoju. Testifying before Chief Ademola Odunade, the court’s president, Adejoke pointed out that her husband’s laziness was having negative effect on her business and living condition. “I was in school when I entrusted my hard earned business into Rasheed’s care because we had already agreed to become husband and wife.” “To further show him my love,  I gave my automated teller machine card (ATM) to Rasheed in case he is in need of money,”she said. “However, after our wedding, it became clear to me that he was not willing to take up any job, even when they are available to him,  in fact he became solely dependent on my business that he began to claim the ownership of the business.” “His brother who lived with us even told me that he collected over N100,000 from secret contributions he made, and he also squandered it.” “When I advised  him to be prudent in the ways he spends money, he frowned at me and said I could not dictate to him how to spend his money. As a result of his laziness and over reliance on my business, the business is on  the verge of collapsing. In fact, we have been served with quit notice in our rented apartment because I could not afford to pay the rent.” “When I reported him to his parents, they advised me to file a divorce notice maybe he could have a rethink in the ways he lives his life.” However,  despite the confirmation from the court bailiff that the defendant had been served with the court notice, he was not in court to defend himself on the allegations leveled against him. Odunade held that the court had no other option than to dissolve the union between the duo because it was obvious that love had ceased to be between Adejoke and Rasheed. Therefore, he dissolved the marriage and awarded custody of the two children in the marriage to Adejoke and ordered Rasheed to pay the sum of N10,000 as monthly feeding allowance for the children. I caught another woman cooking for my husband, wife tells court My husband is very lazy, separate us, wife tells court 4-yr-old marriage heads for the rocks