Following the conviction of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Walter Onnoghen, by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) today, Daily Trust reviewed the sequence of events from his appointment as acting CJN to his conviction.  November 10, 2016 – Buhari appointed Onnoghen acting CJN  February 8, 2017 – Acting President Yemi Osinbajo nominated him as the substantive CJN. March 1, 2017 – He was confirmed by the Senate March 7, 2017 – He was sworn in as substantive CJN by Osinbajo  January 10 – The CCB received a petition against Onnoghen from one Chief Dennis Aghanya of the Anti-corruption and Research-based Data Initiative (ARDI) January 11 – He made a statement to the CCB in his office where he admitted to have forgotten to some assets. January 11 – Charge of false and non-assets declaration filed against him. January 14 – He failed to appear for his arraignment. His lawyer said he wasn’t personally served. January 14 – A National Industrial Court in Abuja restrained CCT from going ahead with trial. A Federal High Court and an FCT High Court also made similar orders. January 16 – Onnoghen was ‘personally’ served with court summons. January 23 – CCT granted ex-parte order granting leave for Onnoghen’s suspension. January 22 – Absent again in tribunal. His lawyers asked for indefinite adjournment. Tribunal dismissed application, said all high courts and industrial court orders not binding on tribunal. January 25 – Buhari suspends Onnoghen, appoints Tanko Mohammed as acting CJN January 28 – CCT adjourns trial indefinitely February 4 – CCT reconvenes following Court of Appeal dismissal of Onnoghen’s stay of proceedings motion. FG indicated intention to apply for a bench warrant against Onnoghen. February 13 – CCT orders Onnoghen’s arrest following application by FG. February 15 – Onnoghen appeared in court, pleaded not guilty to the charge. Granted bail on self-recognizance. March 12 – Onnoghen again absent in CCT over high BP, tooth-ache March 18 – FG called first witness. March 29 – CCT rejected Onnoghen’s no-case submission. Ordered him to open defence. April 1 – Onnoghen called his driver as his sole witness. April 3 – NJC sent report on Onnoghen to President Buhari April 5 – Onnoghen reportedly resigned as CJN. No confirmation from presidency April 15 – Adoption of final written addresses at CCT. April 18 – CCT convicted him of the charge.  CCT: Non-declaration of asset a mistake, funds are from my estacodes - CJN Onnoghen Non-declaration of assets: Chief Justice Onnoghen goes on trial tomorrow How acting CJN landed in ‘trouble’ after 4 days