A trader, Mrs Adejoke Adepoju, yesterday begged a Grade C customary court sitting in Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State, to dissolve her seven-year-old marriage to her husband, Rasheed Adepoju. Adejoke told the court president, Chief Ademola Odunade, that she no longer desired Adepoju as her husband because his “laziness” was having a negative effect on her business and living condition. She said, “I was in school when I entrusted my hard-earned business into Rasheed’s care because we had already agreed to become husband and wife. To further show him my love, I gave my automated teller machine (ATM) card to him in case he needed money. “However, after our wedding, it became clear to me that he was not willing to take up any job. He became so solely dependent on my business that he began to claim the ownership of the business. “His brother, who lives with us, even told me that he (Adepoju) collected over N100,000 from secret contributions he made but squandered it. When I advised him to be prudent, he retorted I could not dictate to him how to spend his money. As a result of his laziness and over-reliance on my business, the business is on the verge of collapsing. In fact, we have been served with a quit notice in our rented apartment because I could not afford to pay the rent. “When I reported him to his parents, they advised me to file a divorce notice to watch if that would make him have a rethink on the ways he lives his life.” Adepoju was not in court to defend himself on the allegations Adejoke levelled against him although the court bailiff confirmed he had served him with the court notice. Chief Odunade held that the court had no other option than to dissolve the union between the couple as it was obvious that love had ceased to exist between them. Therefore, he dissolved the marriage and awarded custody of the two children in the marriage to Adejoke. He ordered that Adepoju pay the petitioner the sum of N10,000 per month as feeding allowance for the children.  I want a divorce, my husband is lazy, wife tells court Pastor wants court dissolve his marriage, says he is tired of being brutalised by his wife I caught another woman cooking for my husband, wife tells court