The Plateau State chapter of the PDP has suspended its Chairman, Damishi Sango, and the Deputy Chairman, Amos Gombi Goyol, over alleged diversion of presidential campaign funds during the 2019 general elections. Another allegation that prompted their suspension was that they diverted N9.8m meant for Internally Displaced Persons (IPDs). The suspension was contained in a resolution signed by 16 members of the state executive of the party who met at the party secretariat in Jos, the Plateau State capital. In the resolution obtained by Daily Trust, the executives of the party said the suspension was with immediate effect and that the party’s Vice Chairman, Northern Zone, Chris Hassan, had taken over as the acting state chairman pending the outcome of the disciplinary committee set up to investigate and recover the funds. “We the members of the state executive of the Peoples Democratic Party, Plateau State chapter, in a meeting held on the 24th day of April 2019 at the state party office due to imminent issues arising from elections and party affairs, hereby pass ‘a vote of no confidence’ on the party Chairman, Damishi T. Sango, and his Deputy, Amos Gombi Goyol. This is in a bid to save the party,” the resolution read in part. The party executives added that, “The chairman and his deputy are hereby also suspended and stand suspended. Reasons being that the resources sent to the state for the presidential elections were not accounted for by the chairman, aided by the deputy. The chairman concealed the amount sent by the presidential campaign committee and created a fraudulent unseen template used as ‘a sharing formula’ unknown to the state party structure, and up till date, no disclosure has been made by the chairman and or the deputy chairman. “Also, the monies raised and saved by the party to help IDPs ameliorate their pains were also not accounted for up till this moment. No mention has been made of the stated funds. It is worthy to note that the deputy chairman is the chairman of the committee on IDPs of the party. “Again, money meant for PDP Plateau State retreat was equally not accounted for by the chairman and or the deputy chairman.” They further said another case in point was the arbitrary substitution of the legitimate candidate who won the primary for Wase House of Representatives by the chairman and this deputy without recourse to the EXCO or SEC owing to some financial inducement. Meanwhile, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, John Akans, confirmed the development to our reporter, saying the decision was unanimously taken by all the members of the executive.  Plateau PDP suspends Chairman, Deputy over alleged diversion of campaign, IDPs funds Bauchi PDP in crisis over alleged financial recklessness, embezzlement Plateau PDP in disarray as party leaders engage in raging battle