The Federal Operations Unit (FOU) in Zone ‘B’ of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in Kaduna on Thursday said that items with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of about N450.8 million were seized by the command in the first quarter. The Comptroller of the command, Mustafa Sarkin Kebbi, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna. Kebbi said that the command recorded big strides in the anti-smuggling activities in 2019. He told NAN that the command seized 4,151 bags of smuggled 50kg foreign per boiled rice during the period. “We were also able to confiscate smuggled spaghetti of about 349 cartons and 11 bags of imported sugar. “Also, 545 cans of 25kg of smuggled vegetable oil and a 80 bales of second hand clothes were seized within the first quarter.’’ Kebbi said that other seizures were 333 used tyres, adding that the tyres which were dangerous could cause can accidents on the highways. “We also seized about 130 cartons of medicament without NAFDAC registration numbers. “We have already done the normal documentation and handed over to NAFDAC as the agency saddled with the responsibility,’’ he told NAN. The comptroller said that currently, eight defenders were undergoing investigation and they would be prosecuted for various offences relating to smuggling. “We have 24 vehicles that were seized during the period from the zone within the Kaduna- Zaria -Abuja axis. “We have two brand new Prado Jeep 2019 model and various brands of vehicles that amounted to 24 with duty paid value of 284 million for ‘tokumbo’ vehicles.’’ According to him, the command encountered various challenges and pressures from politicians and traditional rulers who had interest in the seized smuggled items in their zones. ”The moment an arrest has been made, you start receiving calls here and there; but by the grace of God, I will resist it, ”he said. (NAN) Custom seizes 48 smuggled vehicles in Sokoto Customs seizes vehicles, 720 bags of rice worth N22m in Kaduna Customs seize 1,942 bags of foreign rice, other goods in Katsina State