An Indian foundation, Ishk Tolaram Limbs Centre, has donated 2,000 artificial limbs to people with special needs in Kaduna. The Senior Technician and Branch Administrative Officer of the centre, Mr. Jaiprakash Bidlan said the foundation decided to give free artificial limbs to the people who could not afford the limbs in Kaduna as part of its corporate social responsibility. Bidlan said the foundation had about 98 beneficiaries who needed the artificial limbs and they would be given to them on Friday. “But we are targeting 2,000 people and the registrations is ongoing. When it is completed, we will give the limbs to all the 2,000 people,” he said. He said the organisation was getting its support from other groups of companies and assured that the limbs would last for years when used properly. According to him,  the life span of the limb depends on how the beneficiary  uses it. “If it is used on bare foot it will not last more than two years but if it is used properly it lasts longer.” He said the company has been assisting the less privilege with artificial limbs all over Nigeria adding that no fewer than 15,000 people have so far benefited from the gesture. He said the programme was a continuous one and the organisation would continue to assist people in Nigeria. He said if it could secure the necessary support from the government the organisation would be able to provide more functional limbs which will enable the beneficiaries to walk again. On her part, the Commissioner, Kaduna state Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Hafsat Baba, said the organisation was in Kaduna in March to take the measurements of the beneficiaries. “Due to good relationship with Governor Nasir El-Rufai, the organisation promised to provide children and adults with artificial limbs so they came last month and took the measurements. You could see children who are in need of either limbs or arms,” she said. She extended the gratitude of the state government as well as the beneficiaries to the company for the gesture. One of the beneficiaries, Abdullahi Yahaya, thanked the organisation for giving him artificial limbs and the Kaduna State government for facilitating the efforts to ensure they benefited from the gesture. 90 people to get free artificial limbs in Kano Boy who lost leg in Potiskum school blast back on his feet Boy who lost leg in Potiskum school blast back on his feet