A self-acclaimed pastor of a new generation church, Daniel Chukwu, has been remanded in prison custody on the order of a chief magistrate court, Ogba, Lagos, for allegedly defiling two underaged sisters. The police said that Chukwu, who resides at Omodiagu Street, Fire bus stop, Ijegun, Lagos, allegedly defiled the two girls, whose ages were put at five and seven, on many occasions. The accused, a father of two children and a minister at an undisclosed church, allegedly engaged the seven-year-old in sexual intercourse and violated the five-year-old sister by inserting his finger into her private part after his attempt to achieve penetration failed. The prosecutor, Inspector Raphael Donny, said that the mother of the girls alleged that she sent the older daughter from her shop to their house to bring recharge cards for her customers but she stayed several hours before she returned. Donny said that out of curiosity, the woman requested to know what delayed her but the girl did not disclose what happened. “My Lord, the mother prodded further while reminding her that whoever commits sin must confess, otherwise such a person will go to hell fire. The little girl then became remorseful, opened up and revealed that Pastor Chukwu had sex with her in their corridor. While the girl was confessing, her younger sister also revealed that the same pastor had removed her pants and inserted his finger into her private part,” he added. However, the trial did not hold after Inspector Donny asked the court to refer the matter to the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution for advice. Thus, the magistrate, Mrs. B.O. Osunsanmi, ordered Chukwu to be remanded in prison custody without an option of bail. The court also directed the prosecutor to duplicate the file and send to the DPP for advice. The matter was adjourned till May 6, 2019. Court remands man for allegedly defiling 7-yr-old girl Teenager remanded for allegedly defiling 2 sisters Court remands cleric who allegedly defiled 7-year-old girl