His Treasure House International Ministries, Abuja, has offered free medical treatment to over 2,500 residents of  various communities in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The church’s senior pastor, Godwin Onwubamen, who made this known during one of the medical outreaches in Durumi III, a suburban settlement along Gaduwa District on Saturday, said several residents had benefited from the outreach initiated five years ago. “Over five years ago we decided that we wanted to do things that will affect our immediate community. We decided to go into medical outreach whereby we go to the suburbs to reach out to people,” he said, stressing that more than 2,500 residents have benefitted from the programme since its inception. He said unlike previous editions, the church added feeding to the outreach as all the beneficiaries were given food items and drinks to take home. “We are a church and we believe prayer is the foundation for everything and also after doing the medical test, the prayer part is the last. They actually need prayers and counselling because some of them are not sick. “They just need counselling and there are professionals to help them in that regard,” he said. He said several medical doctors, dieticians, optometrists and laboratory technicians participated in the outreach, and  urged residents to always ensure they take advantage of such outreaches by presenting themselves for the free medical check-ups. One of the beneficiaries, Blessing Dennis, commended the church for saving her the cost of paying for treatment at hospital. “This is more than the medical outreaches people have been doing here. They check my blood pressure, took my blood, gave me drugs and food. “If I had gone to hospital, I will spend more than N30,000 and I got everything for free,” she said. 25 docs offer free health services to IDP returnees in Yobe St Vincent hospital provides medical outreach for FCT residents How 3 Kuje communities benefited from foundations’ free medical outreach