The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to end insecurity in the country. The party said, in a statement on Tuesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, that banditry, kidnapping, killings of innocent Nigerians and other acts of terrorism were on the increase. The party said one of the core campaign promises of the APC and President Buhari was to tackle insecurity in the country, adding that the security of lives and property of Nigerians was the responsibility of government. “The party is heavily grieved by the pain, anguish and horror Nigerians have been subjected in the hands of marauders, following the failure of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to provide adequate security in the country, despite the huge resources at its disposal. “The PDP also tasks the All Progressives Congress (APC) to give account of the whereabouts of the political mercenaries it imported into the country from neighboring countries, particularly from Chad and Niger Republic during the build-up to the 2019 general elections. “This demand is predicated on fears in the public space of the possible involvement of the imported political thugs, who assisted the APC to unleash violence on Nigerians during the elections, in the heightened acts of banditry in our nation. “Nigerians could recall that the PDP had raised a red flag on the dangers of the heavy importation of unscreened aliens by the APC to involve in its presidential election campaign rallies. “The PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians had expressed fears that such aliens could be used by unpatriotic elements to unbridle violent acts against Nigerians. “The party lamented that the Federal Government has failed to exert enough commitment in protecting the lives of Nigerians and curb the bloodlettings and kidnapping of compatriots in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Kogi, Kaduna, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau, Bauchi and other states. “We have been proved right that President Buhari and the APC do not believe in their campaign promises. The PDP notes that by every indication, the President Buhari-led Federal Government has no solution to the security challenges of our nation, which has festered under its incompetent watch. “This is the very reason Nigerians are anxious for the retrieval of our stolen presidential mandate, which they freely gave to Atiku Abubakar, at the tribunal, so that our nation can have the benefit of a purposeful government that is alive to its responsibility of ensuring the security and wellbeing of the Nigerian people,” the party said. Atiku promises to reform economy, give Akwa Ibom refinery We''ll not shortchange you or allow anybody to – Buhari Buhari’s independence speech empty – PDP