An undisclosed number of persons were Monday abducted by armed men while travelling in a Toyota Hilux van with the registration number CT 01 AF. The armed men were said to have intercepted the van at about 6.30pm near Gidan Visa along the Abuja-Kaduna expressway and started firing at it. One of the men in the van, identified as Mshelia Suleman, was injured in the process. The spokesman of the Kaduna State Police Command, Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the incident yesterday. He said a combined team of operatives from the anti-kidnapping unit, PMF and the conventional police had been mobilized to the area for intensive general search operation with a view to rescuing the victims and apprehending the culprits. He said patrol teams within the axis quickly moved to the scene, rescued the injured person and rushed him to the hospital. He said the Inspector-General of Police team had also been contacted for technical assistance. He said a bank teller bearing the name of a possible victim and two foot wears were recovered in the Hilux which has since been taken to the police station. “While the operation is still on, investigation on the incident has also commenced and update will follow,” he added. He, however, described as fake, a report that about 30 people were kidnapped along the Abuja-Kaduna expressway and their vehicles abandoned by the roadside on Monday. Reacting, the Kaduna State Government said the police and other security agencies were reinforcing their presence on the major expressways leading in and out of Kaduna. This was announced following a meeting of the Kaduna State Security Council summoned today by Malam Nasir El-Rufai to assess the situation on the Kaduna-Abuja and Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Roads. El-Rufai presided over the meeting via teleconference from Dakar, Senegal, where he accompanied President Muhammadu Buhari. The council appealed for calm, assuring citizens plying the Abuja-Kaduna and  Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Roads of robust security patrols on the resolutions adopted for immediate implementation. The meeting assured residents that the government will continue to partner with security agencies operating in the state towards the protection of life and property of the citizenry.  Further details of the meeting were not made public. Gunmen abduct travellers, shot 1 along Abuja–Kaduna expressway Police gun down 3 suspected robbers at Zuba How gunmen laid siege to Abuja-Kaduna road