A video clip showing famous Kannywood actress Amina Abdullahi, popularly known as Amina Amal, being assaulted by another actress Hadiza Gabon has gone viral. Weekend Magazine caught up with Amina Amal who opened up on the issue. Week Magazine: There is a trending video on social media in which you were being bullied by a fellow Kannywood actress. What actually transpired in that video? Amina Abdullahi: Yes, I am aware of the video and whatever is seen on that video is real. What happened was that I posted something on one of my social media handles and I didn’t know that the post angered Hadiza Gabon, whom I regard as a role model. WM: What exactly was the post about? Abdullahi: In the beginning, it was a picture that was not decent so a lot of people were complaining and in the end I included another DM (direct message) and some wordings. However, I didn’t know that she was not happy with the post since I didn’t mention anyone’s name in it. That day, I was at home and Habu Sarki, who happens to be one of the people I respect so much in the industry, called me and said he wanted us to have a very important discussion. He said he was out of town and would call me when he arrived. When he came back, he called as we earlier discussed and I came out to meet him. As I stepped out of the house, I noticed a black salon car and then I saw Hadiza Gabon coming out of the car. I didn’t know she came along with some others in a tricycle and immediately she got close to me, she started beating me. Habu Sarki then said we should get into the house but I was confused because I didn’t know what was actually happening. I opened the door to my house and we all entered and yet she didn’t stop beating me. From the video, you will notice that it all happened in an apartment. The videos are two; in fact, she beat the hell out of me and seized my phone. WM: Where did all these happen? Abdullahi: It all happened in Kaduna State. WM: What happened afterwards? Abdullahi: She opened my DM and began to show specific places. From the video, you will hear her directing me to read from those specific areas. I was still confused over what was happening and could not read. When Habu Sarki started reading, she collected the phone and went away with it. She went home with my phone and hacked my instagram account, deleted my Whatsapp, phone numbers, text messages and everything. The following day, I went to her shop to plead with her to give me back my phone, and then I landed into another trouble because I was terribly beaten up by herself and some group of men, including her driver. WM: In the video, you were seen saying that you were under the influence of drugs when you made the controversial post. Did you make the post under the influence of drugs? Abdullahi: I must tell you that the condition I found myself at that very moment was terrible. For me to make that statement, you must know that I was under duress. I was so embarrassed and confused that all I wanted was to leave the place by all means. So, anything they asked me, I tried as much as possible to answer them the way they wanted because she was not the only one beating me. At that point, other people got involved. They were beating me, abusing me and saying all kinds of nasty things to me. I was very anxious to leave that place. WM: How are you feeling now? Abdullahi: Thank God, I am feeling much better now but I still have a problem with my right ear because that was where the driver hit me with his shoe. As you can see, I still have dark spots on my face and hands. WM: It was reported that you were suffering from an ailment. How true is that? Abdullahi: I am not that strong; I have a heart problem, and what happened really got me scared. I spent days in the hospital, I couldn’t eat, and I just kept vomiting. I am much better now though I am still on medication. WM: Are you planning on doing something to redeem your dignity? Abdullahi: Of course. I have met some lawyers and they have agreed to stand with me to fight for my right. WM: What do you actually want? Abdullahi: I don’t have anything to say, I have left everything in God’s hands but I pray that justice would be done. WM: I learnt a case has been instituted in court. Can you tell us part of your prayers before the court? Abdullahi: Like I said, my prayer is to redeem my image in the society. With what happened, a lot of people now see me in a negative light, even when it was a planned assault on my personality and reputation. From that clip, you could see physical and reputational assault, so my prayer is just to restore my dignity. WM: Before this incident, how would you describe your relationship with Hadiza Gabon? Abdullahi: Before that unfortunate incident, there was mutual respect between  us. I have never had issues with anyone in Kannywood not to talk of Hadiza Gabon whom I have on many occasions stated as my role model. WM: How long have you been in Kannywood? Abdullahi: My first movie was in 2016, and that was Amal. WM: Does that mean you have been in the industry for three years? Abdullahi: No, I spent one year learning Hausa before I started featuring in movies. WM: Do you still respect her despite what happened? Abdullahi: You know respect is earned; and when you have respect for somebody, it’s difficult to change unless they try to lose it in their own way or they don’t want that respect anymore. That’s the only time you stop respecting them. I’m a kind of person who doesn’t know how to disrespect anybody. I don’t think I will disrespect her because of what happened. She is my elder and I don’t see any reason why I should disrespect her. I still have respect for her. WM: Despite all these, are you still interested in Kannywood? Abdullahi: Yes, that has always been my dream. I am not fighting Kannywood, I’m only fighting one of the actresses in Kannywood and it is not like I am even fighting with her I’m just fighting to gain back my honour because I don’t have anything against her. Alleged torture: Amina Amal sues Hadiza Gabon, demands N50m damages My journey from Cameroon to Kannywood – Amina Amal I am not arrogant – Nafisa Abdullahi