The sole distributor of Mitsubishi vehicles in Nigeria and a joint venture between CFAO and CHANRAI Group, Massilia Motors, has unveiled the all new Mitsubishi L200 Pickup. The new generation L200, unveiled at Landmark beach, Lagos, is a significant improvement on the previous model designed to continuously satisfy the brand’s teeming customers in Nigeria. Top officials of Massilia Motors, led by the Managing Director/CFAO Country Delegate, Mr. Thomas Pelletier, unveiled the L200 during which a test-drive was conducted. Mr. Pelletier said, “The 2019 L200 is to position the company to be the number one leader in the market, increase the sale volume and consolidate on its market share.” Our correspondent reports that Massilia has taken second position in the pick-up segment, having overtaken some brands. Pelletier said, “Massilia Motors started business three years ago, and so far, it has been a successful story with the Mitsubishi L200 as a major contributor. The Mitsubishi L200 is very important to us because it represents 80 per cent of our sales, and I am optimistic that customers will like the new generation L200.” The Mitsubishi L200 pickup gained popularity through its constant evolution in the last 40 years; thanks to its driving dynamics, running costs, standard kit and attractive prices. Massilia Motors General Manager (Sales), Mr. Tunji Itiola, explained that the Mitsubishi L200 was the best-selling model in the brand’s line up and that the L200’s market share significantly increased in 2018. Mr. Itiola said the enhanced rugged exterior features and advanced safety features were prominent inclusions in the new vehicle which came in three variants: single/double cabins 4×2 and double cabin 4×4, powered by a 2.4-litre engine. The new pickup is already available in Massilia showrooms and with dealers nationwide. The L200 is used as a utility vehicle in a wide variety of applications such as construction sites, fast-moving consumer goods distribution, oil field sites, among others. Aside the new L200, the company also distributes the legendary Pajero, Pajero Sport, Outlander, Eclipse Cross and ASX. 100-year-old Mitsubishi Motors assures of sustained repositioning Mistubushi  sees prospect in auto market with new model Massilia marks 101 year Mitsubishi Heritage