The Court of Appeal, Jos Division, yesterday, re-instated the Member (Jos North/North) in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Baba Hassan, who was sacked by the Federal High Court Sitting in Jos over alleged certificate forgery. Hon. Hassan was taken to the Federal High Court in 2015 by Abdul Nasir Saleh who challenged the authenticity of his Diploma Certificate in Business Administration which he claimed to have obtained from the University of Jos. Saleh contested party primary with the lawmaker on the platform of the APC in 2014 and came second. The high court sacked Baba Hassan and ordered him to pay N25m damages to the plaintiff and also directed him to return to government all the salaries and allowances he collected. But counsel to the lawmaker, Solomon Umoh, appealed the matter at the Court of Appeal, Jos Division. In a consensus judgement by Justice Mudassiru Oneyangi, Tani Hassan and Habeeb Abiru, the jurists set aside the ruling of the Federal High Court based on the ground that the plaintiff filed the matter before the court after 14 days of the primary of their party in 2014. Justice Oneyangi said the court heard the matter for more than three years and that according to Section 285 (10) of the 1999 Constitution, a high court must deliver judgement within 180 days on pre-election matters. He said, “The matter has spent more than three years as against 180 days, and in the first instance, the high court lacks jurisdiction to hear the matter because the case was filed before the court after 14 days of the stipulated time guiding the court regarding pre-election matters.” “And, therefore, all written judgement by the court was nullified and void. There is merit in the appeal, the high court judgement is hereby set aside,” he ordered. Counsel to the plaintiff, David Ibeawuchi, said they would study the judgement before they take their next line of action. Baba Hassan had won re-election for the state assembly seat in the just concluded general elections. Appeal Court reinstates Plateau lawmaker sacked by High Court over certificate forgery Forgery:  Court sacks Plateau lawmaker Forgery: Court sacks Plateau lawmaker