A man, Ibrahim Hameed Majim, has been found burnt beyond recognition in a car in Bauchi State. The burnt car and his charred body were reportedly found in a bush at Unguwar Rogo community of Toro local government area of the state. Sources at Tashan Durumi, a community about 30 kilometres from Bauchi where the case was first reported at the Police Outpost, informed our reporter that some people reported the incidence to the police on Thursday evening. The incidence was suspected to be a suicide as the victim was said to have reportedly expressed signs of frustration and had allegedly been saying that he was tired of living. Findings by our reporter revealed that the man was, until his death, a staff of Registry Department of Federal Polytechnic Bauchi. Speaking to our reporter on telephone, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the institution, Malam Rabiu Wada confirmed that the deceased was a staff of their Registry Department. “Yes, he is our staff. He recently applied for his one month annual leave and was said to be travelling to Kaduna when he was reported to have died in his car which was burnt down at the place it was found. “I was called by the Toro Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and informed about the incidence. Some of his pictures were sent to me for identification and I identified him as our staff,” he said. He however, dismissed the rumours going round that the man was denied scholarship by the institution to study outside the country which made him became frustrated. “These insinuations are wrong. It is the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (Tetfund) that gives Scholarships to study outside the country and it is given to only lecturers of the institution. He is not a lecturer. “In this case, the school is the one that will sponsor people like him if he applies. He has not left any note, stating anything about his death and only Allah knows what happened. “All the talks about being frustrated by the school is not true. In fact, he was engaged in the registration of new students when he applied for his annual leave,”he said. Confirming the incidence, the Bauchi State Police Command Spokesperson, DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar said that the case was reported to the police and they were still investigating the incidence. Further investigation by our reporter at Tashan Durumi revealed that the remains of the victim had been buried at the community’s cemetery. The victim was buried in the presence of the Toro DPO, Police Officers from Tashan Durumi Outpost, some of his relatives and some people from the community. According to a source, who was present at the funeral, Hameed, before his death, reportedly disposed some of his properties. ATBU Bauchi student commits suicide Suicide bomber kills 8, injures 30 in Yobe Tafawa Balewa ambush: A yam seller’s narrow escape