The military has evacuated the entire residents of Jakana community in Konduga Local Government Area of Borno State to Bakassi IDPs camp in Maiduguri metropolis in order to flush out Boko Haram insurgents in the area. Jakana, which is about 40 kilometers to Maiduguri, is on the Maiduguri-Damaturu Road. Earlier this year, the insurgents had attacked the community, torching the police station there. The evacuation, sources told Daily Trust, began late Monday evening. When our correspondent who visited the Bakassi camp yesterday, over 30 trucks had offloaded thousands of Jakana residents. Alhaji Adamu Hassan, a resident, narrated: “Yesterday (Monday) morning the village and ward heads and all other community leaders gathered the entire residents and subjected us to swear by the Holy Quran that we are not insurgents and that are not helping any insurgents in any way. “We were then dispersed; it was completely unknown to us that that was the foundation for our evacuation; a military official came in the afternoon, telling us we would all be evacuated to Maiduguri, and that the Garrison Commander was even on his way himself in preparation for the evacuation; no reason was given to us, but the discerning ones among us recalled the morning  convergences with the community leaders. “Suddenly, late evening, we heard town criers going round town warning residents each to carry whatever he or she can long his belonging and immediately hasten to the main road; that was how waiting trucks began evacuating us, some of us with a few little items they can carry, and others like me with just the clothes we are putting on.” The military, the police and officials of the Civil Defence escorting the residents from Jakana declined comment. The spokesman of the National Emergency Management Agency, Northeast, Abdulkadir Ibrahim, confirmed that the evacuation of the Jakana residents to Maiduguri was “for their safety as a result of ongoing operations to flush out insurgents in the area.” He said: “Camp management officials and various stakeholders in humanitarian response are mobilising resources to cater for their basic needs after registration and profiling.” Deadly attacks continue in Borno 'Boko Haram forcefully recruiting youth in Borno villages' Boko Haram sacks Borno community