Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai has urged communities in the state to shun reprisal in resolving differences. The governor, who was at an IDP camp in Maraban Kajuru in Kajuru Local Government of the state on Wednesday, said an attitude of attacks and reprisals only produces pain and suffering. He said he had directed relevant agencies to reassess the condition of the IDPs from different communities and enable them to return to their communities soon, stressing that he was saddened by the situation. “What we saw is unfortunate, but we must speak out and tell our people the right thing to be done. An eye for eye is not a solution to the vicious cycles of killings and will complicate and undermine collective efforts. “Our admonition is simple. If Fulani or Adara communities have complaints of killings or attacks, they should report and allow security agencies and government to take up the administration of justice. If these communities resort to taking the laws into their own hands, it will not work. That is not the solution. “As a government, we will continue to collaborate with security agencies, traditional and religious institutions in peace building, but we will be frank to our communities. They have lived peacefully before this mistrust and they can rekindle the glorious past by simply not taking the laws into their own hands and doing away with jungle justice.” “On our own part, we will do our very best in protecting lives and property.  We will also not shy away from applying the law to anyone found complicit in the violent communal conflicts, irrespective of their status, religion, ethnicity or political persuasions. Let us cherish all lives. No life is more precious than another life,” he said. After receiving briefings from officials of Kajuru Local Government Council and the volunteers managing the IDPs, the governor directed that urgent reassessment of the condition of the displaced citizens be undertaken to fast track  their return to normalcy. Kajuru: Governor El-Rufai asks communities to shun reprisal killings Coalition urges FG to probe Kajuru killings Kaduna to establish judicial commission of inquiry into Kajuru killings