Over 2000 Megawatts (MW) of power is not taken up by the Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) for distribution to consumers largely because of problems they experience in  collection of tariff, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, has said. The vice president said this was because the DisCos have not invested significantly in metering. He stated this while delivering a lecture titled ‘Nigeria Rising: The Path to Prosperity’ at the 50th convocation ceremony of University of Lagos (UNILAG). Osinbajo noted that power generation has moved from 4000 to 8100MW but that the effect of the increase in generation has not translated significantly to better service to the consumers mainly due to distribution challenges. “We have now embarked on a major metering initiative, the Metering Assets Programme which involves private metering assets providers. In addition, the Federal Government has in the past 18 months taken on the deficiencies in transmission head-on through the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC). “We are completing transmission projects all around the country. But the more important strategy is to decentralize power production. So we have adopted an off grid programme, which means that we are encouraging private investors to collaborate with government to build IPPs and supply power to willing buyers. “This was made possible by what is called an eligible customer declaration by the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. By this collaboration, we have been providing power, especially solar power to economic clusters such as markets across the country. “These include Ariaria market in Aba, 31,993 shops; Sabongari market in Kano 13,598 shops; Sura market in Lagos, 1047; Isikan  493; NEPA 256;  Gbagi 8778; and UMBC 2178; making a  total of 81,691 shops servicing 320,000 SMEs. “In Lagos, we recently commissioned the Sura market solar project, the businesses there now have 24 hours power. From printers, commercial tailors to small chop businesses, everyone is employing more and making more profit,” the VP said. The next level, he said, is to ensure completion of the major infrastructure projects, noting however that the major drawback is funding. “We have established an infrastructure fund known as the ‘Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund’. If we stick to our agenda, in the next two years, we will see the most significant improvements in our power sector in history,” he assured. Speaking further, Professor Osinbajo stated that industrial infrastructure is a major component of the present administration’s economic transformation plan, adding that Project Made in Nigeria (MINE) for Export is the major plank of its industrial policy. The idea, he said, is to build Special Economic Zones which accommodate industries for local manufacture of goods for which Nigeria has a comparative advantage such as cotton, garments and leather ware among others. Inaccurate billing responsible for irregular power supply — Osinbajo FG to review power sector privatisation Electricity: Protests, progress as privatised sector clocks 5