Kudla Satumari was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Borno South Senatorial District in the last election. Satumari, in this interview in Abuja, spoke about his plan to claim his mandate from the incumbent, Senator Ali Ndume, of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Excerpt:  You lost the senatorial election to Sen. Ali Ndume. Are you planning to challenge the outcome at the tribunal? Like you already know, I contested for Southern Borno senatorial district on the platform of the PDP and the immediate result is not what we expected which is also not different from the presidency. A lot of people have been calling to find out what is in the offing. We have been evaluating the outcome of the election in order to take a decision on what to be done. But there has been an overwhelming call from my people and people who were there at the polling units who have hard facts to prove that there was substantial breach of the electoral process and the feel that we should not allow it to go like that. People have been calling, including people from other political parties who participated in the election to confirm to me that we won the election and that it was upturned between the polling units and the collation centres. For us to deepen democracy and ensure that the processes of election are abided by, we decided to agree and accept the decision of the party and my supporters to take the case to the tribunal and the petition has been served on all respondents. Will you accept out of court settlement? Never! There are people that by their fruits, you shall know them. In 2015, I contested election. I was the preferred candidate to win. In my local government, we have a tarred road separating two towns. One side of the road, is Adamawa and on the other side, is Borno State. They told me that there was insecurity on my side of the road and they refused to hold election there and moved it to the IDP camp in Maiduguri. Because of the insecurity, the shortest route you could take then was about 12 hours from my constituency to Maiduguri and yet they took the election there. Meanwhile, on the other side of the road which is Adamawa, they were holding election and insecurity did not bother them. Fast-track that to 2019, a bomb was released on that same day and election still went ahead. With regards to settling out of court, this is not about me, but about my people. When I say about my people, I don’t want to go emotional, but the level of insecurity in my area is so much that I don’t know what is happening. I don’t know if we still have men of character and integrity to question what is happening. So, I will never accept any form of settlement out of court. Let the court decide and say he has won. If that happens, I will appeal and let the appeal court also say he has won. If that also happens and since I cannot go further than that, I will leave it to God. But no amount of threat will stop me. My life has been threatened several times. There is nothing that has not been done. There is nobody on the surface of this earth, including my mother that I cherish and respect so much that will tell me to step down because of whatever consideration. I will never concede. Even if the lawyers refuse to defend me, I will defend myself. Some of your adversaries will say that you are just being a bad loser. What do you have to say to this? If you hear my story, you will know that my people are with me and I don’t think that anybody will say that I am a bad loser because I have conceded so many things. I am not a professional politician. I am a professional in politics. I have something that I do that can keep me busy. If you ask me what they get at the National Assembly, I don’t even know. I only know that when I become a senator of the Federal Republic, I can easily access some privileges and bring some development to my people. So, being a good or bad loser does not arise. If I had ulterior motive, then maybe I would say that I don’t have the opportunity to recover what I spent. So, it is not a matter of being a bad loser. Everything contained in my manifesto when I contested in 2015 and 2011, I fulfilled them even without winning the election. Why will I feel bad about losing? I know that when you go into a contest, you either win or lose. There are so many things that I cannot talk about maybe because we are in court. Before the election, they already conceded that they have lost one senatorial seat in Borno because they knew what we had on ground.  God gave us the money to do what we did as well as dedicated and committed people to work with. While people are entitled to their own opinion, I can tell you that majority of my people will tell you that I am not a desperate politician. Don’t you think the Buhari bandwagon effect affected you in the election? The good thing is that even President Muhammadu Buhari himself asked the people to go and vote for the right people; credible people that they think will represent them well. He warned against the bandwagon in many of the gatherings that he went to. That is what made us come together. In southern Borno, there was no APC, no PDP. We called it Southern Borno project. It was about rescuing southern Borno and that was the agenda that people went to town with. We had more votes coming from APC than the ones that came from PDP. In my senatorial district, my picture and that of Buhari were printed together. There was no issue of Buhari bandwagon out of the fact that the election was on the same day. If there was bandwagon effect, PDP will not be winning the number of states they won. PDP will not be winning Bauchi and Adamawa and other areas that we won in the North East. People liked and loved Buhari in the North East, but they did not like APC as a party. Why I want to represent Borno South in Senate – Aspirant Borno South needs new representation Ndume renews call for power rotation in Borno