The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) says it is not opposed to the consultations Senator Ahmed Lawan and others are holding with members of the opposition over the election of leaders into the 9th National Assembly. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who reacted yesterday, said contrary to the view that the party objected to such consultations, it was a normal democratic practice world over. Issa-Onilu said the actions of Lawan and other members did not contradict its position since APC has comfortable majority in both chambers with the number to produce the leadership. He said, “We are inundated with reports of our members in the National Assembly holding consultations with members of the opposition over the election of leaders into the 9th National Assembly. Let me state that our party has no objection to such consultations. It is a normal democratic practice world over to stretch hands across the divides.  And contrary to some media reports, the actions of our members do not contradict the party’s position. APC has comfortable majority in both chambers, therefore; we have the number to produce the leadership. “But democracy recognises the importance of the opposition, especially when you do not have two-third which would be required at some very critical situations. For us as a ruling party, we understand that a stable and peaceful National Assembly would enhance our capacity to deliver more for the people of Nigeria. “So, the party is not averse to negotiation by Senator Ahmed Lawan and our other Senators-elect working to fulfil the position taken by our party. “It is important to note that one of the key considerations for adopting him as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency is his ability to carry everyone along. On top of that, the party has confidence in him not to compromise the progressive ideology of APC. So clearly, Senator Ahmed Lawan is capable of conducting his negotiations within the prism of APC’s objectives.” On zoning and the leadership of House of Representatives, Issa-Onilu said, “Our party will soon release the zoning arrangements for the principal positions of the incoming 9th National Assembly. “The party will also make its position clear in the coming days on the principal positions in the House of Representatives.” PDP’s ambition to produce next Senate President, exercise in futility -APC Why we endorsed Ahmed Lawan - APC APC doesn’t need support of PDP to elect Senate President, Speaker – Issa-Onilu