The Adamawa Governor-elect, Alhaji Ahmadu Fintiri, has constituted a Transition Committee to ensure smooth take-over of administration from the out-going Gov. Muhammadu Bindow administration. Inaugurating the 65-Man committee in a ceremony in Yola on Monday, Fintiri said the measure was necessary for smooth handing over by the out-going administration. Fintiri said the committee should obtain the detailed description of the structures of government, its institutions and number of work force. The committee was also expected to get the number of those on pension roster and number of political office holders including members of the State Executive Council, Senior Special Assistants, Advisers and Special Aides. “The committee is also to obtain detailed list of general staff by their ministries, departments and agencies including their date of first appointment, rank and date of last promotion, salary grade level and a remarks column. “The remark column should reflect additional information such as in-service course and out of station among such information. “The committee will be expected to work closely with a similar body which I believe the outgoing administration will set up. “You are expected to obtain detailed information on assets and liabilities of Adamawa State Government to guide us on the necessary decisions that will be made as soon as we come into office,” he said. Fintiri said the committee is also expected to obtain number of contracts, outstanding balance on such contracts awarded, mobilized but not started or abandoned. He directed the committee to work closely with the staff of the Accountant General’s Office, Board of Internal Revenue, the State Auditor General, and Local Government Auditor General so that it can obtained up to date general picture of the financial situation of the state. The governor-elect said the committee should also acquire the complete list of all Adamawa State Boards and Parastatals as well as itemised their schedules to enable the incoming administration formulate appropriate decisions concerning them. “You should indicate whether or not the enabling laws setting up such boards are current or outdated. “We expect the transition committee to proceed to recommend a functional cost effective structure and the composition of the in-coming administration. “The recommendations should avoid making the administration top heavy with political appointments at the expense of a modest size cabinet to enable us deliver prompt socio-economic services to the people of the state,” he said. Fintiri said his in-coming administration would accord local government special attention, adding the committee should also collect the staff list of all the 21 local governments in the state. Earlier, the State PDP chairman, Mr Tahir Shehu, in his welcome address, said members of the committee were selected based on merit from various sectors irrespective of political parties. He called for the public support and cooperation for the committee to succeed. In his remarks, chairman of the committee, Alhaji Aliyu Ismaila, said the committee would work in line with the guideline given to it. Ismaila, a retired Permanent Secretary with Federal Ministry of Defence, said the assignment was his first in his home state of Adamawa, saying that he was committed to make a success of it. He said the assignment was not an investigation or witch-hunting but going to look for facts. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the committee which has Mr John Yahaya as Secretary also have former Minister, Hajiya Zainab Maina, and former Adamawa Head of Service (HoS), Mr Musa Kaibo as members. (NAN) Adamawa Governor-elect constitutes 65-member transition committee Fintiri constitutes 65-member transition committee Fintiri constitutes 65-member transition committee