In what stakeholders see as a return of luxury buses, Weststar Associates Limited and Auto Alternative Nigeria Limited have jointly launched the seventh generation of Paradiso 1350 Marcopolo bus model. Weststar is the authorised general distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria, while Auto Alternative is the authorised representative of the Brazilian bus, Marcopolo, in Nigeria. At the unveiling in Lagos, the Managing Director of Weststar, Mr. Mirko Plath, enthused that the introduction of the bus showed the growth and expansion of interstate road travel in Nigeria. Mr. Plath said the introduction of the Marcopolo Paradiso 1350 bus model marked a move in the right direction for bus operators in Nigeria, noting that bus operators were ready to take their businesses to the next level with the introduction of the model. He explained that the collaboration with Marcopolo in Nigeria had been very fruitful over the years as demand for the luxury passenger buses grew. Plath further said the new generation Paradiso 1350 had been designed to provide the best passenger experience and greater comfort and safety to the driver; making it better than its predecessors, and that the Paradiso 1350 was built with the ever reliable Mercedes-Benz 0500 RSD bus chassis developed for middle and long distance travels and built to carry 24 tonnes with a body length of 14 metres. Plath added that: “Mercedes-Benz has been present in Nigeria for 60 years of its 133 years of existence. Marcopolo is on its fourth generation in the country. Marcopolo stands for safety, comfort and durability which Mercedes-Benz is also known for.” “The new Marcopolo Paradiso 1350 brings external and internal changes that raise the level of sophistication, comfort, safety and efficiency in comparison to its predecessors. A renewed exterior sees the Paradiso 1350 appear with newly designed mirrors that offer better driver visibility, newly designed bumpers and side windows and a new visual identity in the front; while the rear comes with a larger back cover that improves access to mechanical components and rear windows with a new design.” Representative of Marcopolo at the occasion, Michael Melsh, said the unveiling of the bus was a moment to celebrate Marcopolo in Nigeria. Weststar unveils Mercedes-Benz Actros, Arocs Trucks Weststar Mercedes Benz Nigeria launches star traveler Weststar announces Mercedes-Benz Atego as the “Truck of the Year, 2011”