The Initiative for Demonstrating Change in Nigeria (IDCN), a pro Buhari group, says it backs Sen. Ahmed Lawan and Mr Femi Gbajabiamila for the leadership of the 9th National Assembly. The, group, therefore, urged members-elect of the National Assembly to support the decision of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to elect Lawan as Senate President and Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the Federal House Representatives. Mr Chinedu Ogah, the National Coordinator of the group, who spoke to newsmen in Abakaliki on Monday, said that the contributions of Lawan as the Majority Leader of the 8th Senate were far reaching as they boosted the unity of the country. Ogah said that many landmark achievements and contributions of the senator had projected him as a seasoned legislator, core APC loyalist and man of the people. He said that the choice of Lawan and Gbajabiamila would boost the legislative fortunes of the country. The group urged members-elect of the APC in the two Chambers of the national assembly to display total loyalty to the supremacy of the party, to avoid the repeat of the scenario of the 8th Assembly. It also called on members-elect of other political parties to put the interest of the country above party politics and forge a common front that would promote cohesion and unity in the nation’s legislative arm of government. “Ahmed Lawan has displayed maturity as the true leader that will unite the national assembly. ” He is a lover of democracy, intelligent, humble and believer in one Nigeria. We should elect him as the Senate President because he has displayed that he does not put party interest above national interest. “We are also supporting Femi Gbajabiamila for the speakership of the House of Representatives because in spite of his loss of the position in the outgoing Assembly, he was never antagonistic to the leadership of the green chamber. “He displayed love, humility and loyalty in the service of this country. “The two candidates are God-fearing leaders who believe in the unity of Nigeria. We, the Initiative of Demonstrating Change in Nigeria, strongly support the position of the national leadership of the APC on the two choices,” it said. The group congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election for a second term, saying the re-election would enable him to consolidate on his achievements. (NAN) N/Assembly leadership:Saraki, Dogara dare APC I won’t choose leaders for N/Assembly – Buhari APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership