In what witnesses described as commando-like manner, armed bandits have abducted the acting Director of the Lagos State Fire Service, Rasaki Musibau and seven others in Epe, a riverine area of the metropolis. The abduction of the state government officials came just as residents complained of series of killings and other vices which occur in the state recently. It was gathered that the acting Director and seven others were kidnapped by gunmen on Saturday night along Itoikin-Epe road in Ikosi-Ejirin Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of the state. As at the time of filling this report on Sunday, the identity of the seven others abducted by the gunmen were still unknown. It was gathered that the kidnappers stormed the bridge at about 8:00pm and stopped vehicles conveying the victims at Iwoye Bridge; they ordered them to alight from their vehicles and whisked them away to an unknown destination. Sources said that the axis had become the new den for kidnappers lately after abducting Ikosi-Ejirin council chairman, Mr. Ajijedidun Samson Adebisi and Vice chairman of Lekki LCDA, last month within the axis. Confirming the abduction, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, disclosed that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Muazu Zubairu, has immediately deployed a special squad to ensure quick rescue of the victims and arrest of the perpetrators. “It is true. The abduction happened yesterday at about 8pm on Iwoeye Bridge along Ikosi-Ejirin-Epe road. Some hoodlums blocked the bridge and whisked seven persons including the director of fire service. The Lagos Commissioner of Police, Muazu Zubairu, visited the scene last night. “And we have deployed our special anti-kidnapping unit to comb the entire axis, rescue the victims and arrest the perpetrators. I want to assure the family of the victims that they should remain calm. “The Nigerian Police has started trailing the perpetrators and we assure them that the victims will be rescued alive. We have intensified patrol on that axis and other adjourning roads,” he added. He further stated: “Meanwhile, the Command has assured Lagosians of their safety at all times as it has intensified patrols and surveillance along Itokin-Epe road, Ketu, Ereyun and other major highways in the state”. Kidnappers return with big bang States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits Gunmen kidnap top police officer, others