The First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has urged Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to take the lead in driving the diversification and growth of the Nigerian economy. This, according to the bank, is due to the catalytic role they play in the lives of people and the society. The bank gave the assurance during its series of free capacity building programmes, tagged ‘Business Enterprises and Sustainability Training (BEST)’ organised for existing and start-up SMEs in Lagos. It said in a statement said the initiative, led by FCMB Training Academy, its Business Banking Group and seasoned facilitators, focused on business and skills development, marketing, finance and accounting for SMEs. SMEs, over the years, have stimulated national and economic development in the areas of production, employment and income generation. This is while making serious contribution to exports as well as facilitating equitable distribution of income, among other significant impacts. Speaking on the BEST initiative, the Executive Director, Business Development of FCMB, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said the bank recognises the increasing role and impact of SMEs. The participants at the capacity training expressed gratitude to FCMB for living up to its core values of Execution, Professionalism, Innovation and Customer-focus (EPIC). A participant and Chief Executive of Demilestone Ventures, Mr. Lanre Omojowo, said the training was very insightful, engaging and a very resourceful programme. “It was an eye opener for me on how to appropriately and effectively build a business model. Through the knowledge acquired, I am better equipped to know my business in and out. FCMB has proved that it is not just interested in making financial gains off customers, but to support them significantly.” Another participant and Managing Director of Gravido Fashions, Mrs. Grace Dogubo, said, “the training was very practical. It highlighted the challenges we face as business owners and how we can transform this to opportunities in order to have a sustainable business. “My experience at the training will help me a lot to take my business to greater heights,” she said.  FCMB offers free training for SME customers FCMB drives growth, organises business finance training for SMEs in Abuja FCMB to launch zero-interest rate product for women entrepreneurs