Kaduna state governor, Nasiru El-Rufai, has said the state has received series of expression of interests from a number of investors who are taking advantage of the state’s ease of doing business policies. Speaking at the Kaduna state special day at the just concluded 40th Kaduna International Trade Fair, the governor noted that the state has been rated high in terms of ease of doing business due to some reforms the state government has put in place recently and its subscription to open government partnership (OGP) at local level. He further assured that no investor bringing his money to do business in the state will regret doing. “The state has been rated high in terms of ease of doing business due to some reforms the state government has put in place recently and its subscription to open government partnership (OGP) at local level,” he said. Represented by the Commissioner, Kaduna state Ministry for Works, Housing and Transport, Hajiya Balaraba A. Inuwa, El-Rufai believed the state is viable for all credible businesses. According to him, “It is noteworthy, that trade fairs such as this offer participants great opportunities to interact and compare skills, technology and patronage of goods and services, and also provide avenues for exploring new markets and profitable joint ventures leading to economic growth and development, as well as exchanging ideas with both local and international business communities. “Kaduna state has mobilized participants and exhibitors from various government agencies, local government councils, as well as the organised private sectors, and have in display, varieties of goods, especially agricultural crops, agro-allied products, solid minerals samples, fabricated equipment, models, leather and art products, and many more. “The theme for the fair, which is consolidating interface between industry and agriculture for Nigeria’s sustainable development” underscores the critical need to invite private sector organizations to take full advantage of the potentials which the state has comparative and competitive advantages, such as the agricultural, solid mineral, hospitality and tourism sectors.” He reaffirmed that his administration has put in place the necessary mechanisms to provide the enabling business climate for every investor interested in doing business in the state. He prayed that the inflow of investments into the state will transform the state’s economy, create employment and reduce poverty. Gov El-Rufai inaugurates committee on open governance El-Rufai: Kaduna has attracted over $500m investments El-Rufai to build new Peugeot Assembly plant in Kaduna