The National Executive Council of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called on security agencies in the country to do more on the security threats ravaging the north by taking the war to the criminals. ACF, in a communique issued after its quarterly meeting which held in Kaduna on Wednesday,  said the criminals had made life unbearable for many Nigerians. The communiqué, signed by ACF national Publicity Secretary,  Muhammed Ibrahim Biu, said members discussed exhaustively on the security challenges especially kidnappings and killings of innocent people on the highways and frequent attacks on communities in  Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Taraba states . The meeting noted that the underlying causes of insecurities differ from one geopolitical zone to another, hence the need for government to consciously develop appropriate measures to contain the situation. The ACF called on the Federal Government to take drastic measures to restore normalcy, peace and harmony in the affected states in order to assuage the fears of the people in particular Zamfara state where it noted that the banditry have been most cruel and devastating to the socioeconomic and political life of the people. “The Council also notes with concern the most recent communal clashes between the Tiv and Jukun communities in Benue and Taraba states respectively with attendant loss of lives and destruction of properties on both sides. “The Council condemned this unnecessary enmity between communities that have peacefully co-existed over the years and called on the States affected to put in a peace building mechanism that will ensure harmony among the various groups. “The Council notes with concern the recent communal clash between Mada ethnic group and Fulani settlement in Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State and condemns such heinous crimes. It calls on the Security agencies to fish out the perpetrators and bring them to justice. Council also appeal to the communities to avoid using reprisal attacks as a way of addressing concerns, since such reprisals make victims of those who know nothing about the feuds. It therefore, appeals for due process in addressing such grievances among the various communities,” the communiqué read. The ACF also frowned  at the issue of more than 10 million  out-of-school children in the North and noted with concern the increase in the number of Almajiris and children roaming the streets and the unfortunate attitude of state governors towards the development “This is an unfortunate development, Council therefore appealed to the Northern States government to seriously address this out-of-school children menace to avoid further escalation of insecurity and other vices that have bedeviled the North. Illiteracy, poverty and drug abuses are a result of poor education and nonchalant attitude of our leaders to good,” the ACF stated. ACF urges FG to probe Metele attack ACF backs House report on subsidy ACF commends military on Boko Haram