The Labour Party in Ogun State has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of denying the party access to inspect the electoral materials used for the conduct of March 9 governorship election in the state. Daily Trust recalls that Justice Chinwe Onyeabor – led panel had on April 9 ordered INEC to allow LP access to the materials for purpose of maintaining its petition marked EPT/OG/Gov/03/2019 filed before the tribunal. The opposition party is challenging “unlawful exclusion of its logo from the ballot papers” in the recently concluded gubernatorial poll. However, the party’s lead Counsel, Hassan Balogun told newsmen in Abeokuta that INEC has failed to honour the tribunal’s directive to grant Labour Party’s request, while granting same request to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Balogun alleged that the electoral body intends “to frustrate the petition and hinder the course of justice.” “Apparently, they have intentionally decided to disobey the order of the honourable tribunal. “Moreso, when the same body (INEC) only desire to grant access to the APM to inspect the same set of documents. We don’t know the reason why INEC has decided to merry in contempt of court, but it is clear that their intention is to frustrate our petition and hinder the course of justice. “We have advised our client accordingly, and we have their instruction to commence contempt proceeding against the Ogun State Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC and any of his colleagues who are found wanting in that regard,” he said. In his reaction, the INEC’s Administrative Secretary in the state, James Popoola refuted Labour Party’s allegation saying the commission “is under obligation to allow all petitioners to have access to the election materials.” Popoola maintained that, INEC cannot deny any petitioner access to the electoral materials “if the party truly apply, they would have been granted access.” Ogun Tribunal grants LP access to election documents Delta guber: Labour party  chairman snubs INEC counsel Election materials: Why we will not engage PDP on petitions – INEC