Armed bandits late Sunday night killed a pregnant woman and 15 people at Numa village, Andaha in Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. It was gathered that 14 other people sustained injuries in the attack which occurred during a naming ceremony. The chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in the state, Alhaji Muhammad Hussaini, confirmed the incident. He, however, said the attackers were not Fulani but criminals. He said: “I believe that the suspected armed men are not Fulani but criminal elements and I called on the security agencies to investigate, arrest and prosecute them”. The senator representing Nasarawa North, Philip Gyunka, said: “The attack is unfortunate, barbaric and uncalled for. A father, mother and a boy were killed, a pregnant woman and an aged person above 100 years.” He recalled that he recently moved a motion on the floor of the Senate calling on the Federal Government to establish a military base in Akwanga as people from Calabar, Maiduguri, among others “meet in Akwanga to go to Abuja. The incidences of kidnapping and robbery on the Akwanga-Abuja road is as result of people moving with weapons unchecked.” Also yesterday, the senator said the military base would ensure that the insecurity situation would be nipped in the bud, adding the government must take action when people are being kidnapped and killed in their communities. The senator who visited the Akwanga General Hospital to commiserate with victims of the lates attack in Numa-Choku community decried the incessant killings in the area. He said during the latest attack, several people, including a pregnant woman, were killed by suspected herdsmen during a naming ceremony on Sunday at the community, about 10 kilometers from Akwanga. “Last week Wednesday, I raised a motion on the herdsmen killing of our people in three villages, Mante, Nindan and Katanza. “Herdsmen attacked a village where a lady was coming from an occasion. She was raped and killed and that resulted in a clash between the in the community. “Our traditional ruler was able to bring the situation under control and the matter was resolved. While we were trying to get over that, there was a fresh attack in Numa-Choku, a neighbouring village to those three communities. The celebrant and the parents were all killed and woman lost four of her children and a pregnant daughter in-law. So pathetic. These are harmless people who were having a naming ceremony,” he said. While calling on the National Emergency Management Agency(NEMA) to immediately provide relief materials to the victims, the senator called for called for a strict laws to prohibit arms bearing by unauthorised persons. The ruler of Mada, Chief Samuel Gamu-Yare said: “We have 15 deaths, while several others were critically wounded. The militias interacted with the celebrants during the naming ceremony before they suddenly resorted to sporadic shooting. Some of the assassins were identified and their names have been handed over to the security agents”. When contacted, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operations, DCP Umar Shehu Nadada, also confirmed the incident. He stated: “The suspects are unknown gunmen as they have not been arrested. The incident happened when some were celebrating at a party in the night. 15 people have killed and 14 have been injured and are receiving medical treatment.” UPDATE: 15 people killed, 14 injured in Nasarawa State Gunmen kill pregnant woman, 15 others in Nasarawa How armed bandits unleash mayhem in Katsina villages