The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has engaged journalists on the post-election assessment with a view to reviewing the challenges and achievements recorded. ‎The director general of the agency, Dr Garba Abari, in his remarks, said there were a lot of misgivings and predictions that the elections would be violent, while others opined that the country could break up. He said despite the challenges faced before, during and after the elections and the bad predictions, Nigeria has remained one and calm. Narrating how NOA went the extra length to sensitise Nigerians on the elections using different channels of communication, Dr Abari said they were faced with challenges of funds but that they had to make do with the little they had. ‎”Before the elections, some people had different predictions; some went to the extent of saying the country could break up. But Nigerians went to pray and we had peaceful elections. By and large, the country has remained one, and we’re moving well, everywhere is relatively calm. “We’re all witnesses to how fake news and hate speech were used during the campaigns. Some politicians were on one another’s jugular, and perhaps that explained how they tried to outdo themselves for the benefit of their interests. “You could see that there’s more than enough need to start sensitization on the issue of fake news and hate speech as we move forward and prepare to face future elections. “Some of the postings (on social media) were so divisive and inciting that you began to wonder what has become of our values. We in NOA ran a social media handle on Facebook and Twitter on hate speech for a very long time.” He said in the electioneering process, the agency “discovered that the media should do more of the role of social engineers. The media has actually excelled. Some of the journalists suggested that the agency must take its financial challenges to the government in view of the enormous task before it, while others advised that NOA should work with donor agencies to finance some of its activities. Responding, Dr Abari said they have been doing their best and called on the media to also help in championing their cause, noting that the agency could only take donor funds to do campaigns on polio, meningitis and the like, ‎”but we can’t take their funds to do things that pertain to our sovereignty.‎” NOA to Nigerians: Resolve political grievances through lawful means 2019: NOA urges FG to deploy security agents for peaceful election 2019 elections: NOA calls for deployment of security apparatus for peace