From selling 50,000 units of brand new vehicles in 2013, automobile distributors in Nigeria recorded a steep drop to less than 10,000 units sold in 2018, findings by Daily Trust have shown. The situation, according to experts, could become much worse as there is a web of uncertainty over the status of the Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan Bill passed into law in 2017. Stakeholders believe the bill is critical to the survival of the industry and that it would trigger massive development in the sector capable of bringing down the cost of brand new vehicles and making them much more affordable to average Nigerians. Currently all automobile distributors in Nigeria are groaning over declining sales as they could only sell a paltry 10,000 brand new vehicles in a year. Some of the auto distributors include Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL), Massilia Motors, Coscharis, Globe Motors, Weststar, Lanre Shittu, Kia Motors, Peugeot, Changan and Mandilas, among others. All of them struggle to share in a market of less than 10,000 units sale per annum at the moment. Findings by Daily Trust showed that no fewer than 50,000 units of brand new vehicles were sold in 2013. This dropped to 40,000 in 2015. And in the following year, 2016, the figure crashed by 200 per cent to 20,000 units. The figure depleted further to 10,000 in 2017 and remained the same up till 2018. And the year 2019 is not looking different as the purchasing power of Nigerians shrinks in relation to buying brand new vehicles, according to auto dealers. Our correspondent reports that the cost of brand new cars began to skyrocket following the naira devaluation with one dollar exchanging for over N300/N350 from N150-N160 in 2015/2016. Also, the introduction of 70 per cent tariff on importation of new cars has jacked up the prices making a brand new car unaffordable to an average Nigerian. Many automobile stakeholders interviewed by Daily Trust said Nigeria is now at par with Ghana in terms of annual sale of brand new cars. “We were relieved when the industry was recording 50,000 units and we thought the situation would continue to improve until we began to see a decline year in, year out and the figure dropped to 10,000”, a stakeholder who refused to be named said. “Shameful” was the word used by the Managing Director of Massilia Motors, authorized distributors of the Mitsubishi brands, Thomas Pelletier in describing the situation. Pelletier blamed the development on high duty of 70 per cent and delay and high cost of clearing containers from the ports, among others. “We should lower the duty so that the price can come down. Also, the process of clearing of goods must be cost-effective and efficient. For instance, the cost of taking a container from the port to our warehouse which is about eight kilometers is higher than bringing the container all the way from Japan,” he stated. He said Nigeria should be talking about selling 100,000 to 200,000 units of vehicles per annum before it can talk of attracting significant investment in the sector. Automotive Bill as a game-changer? Experts say the failure to give legal backing to the Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill has caused the sector to stagnate and created confusion in the system as potential investors are skeptical about doing business in the country’s auto industry. For instance, one of the components of the bill is the introduction of the car purchase scheme whereby average Nigerians can access a single-digit loan to buy brand new cars. According to stakeholders, the industry would have been churning out huge sale records if the policy has been legalized. A top official of one of the major distributors who spoke on condition of anonymity believes government is not sincere about the NAIDP Bill. “If I am right, the bill was passed into law by the National Assembly in 2017 but up till now we are still foot-dragging on it. Where is the car ownership scheme in which prospective owners can take a loan at single digit? We approached the Bank of Industry for such a loan but the BOI said they are not aware of the bill. Government is not sincere in all of this,” he said. Mr. Jelani Aliyu, Director-General of National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), had in a recent interview confirmed that the NAIDP would address the low buying capacity of Nigerians for brand new cars. He said, “We are also in very strong discussion with potential investors to set up an auto finance scheme so that Nigerians, like people do around the world, will just put little money down, get a brand new vehicle and either pay over time or just lease it for some time. This is crucial in helping their capacity.” Toyota sold 15,000 units in 11 months The 6th Lagos Motor Fair: In humble beginnings Nigeria Autos Report Q2 2010 - New Market Report Published