A team of five Kenyan girls, on Wednesday, received the Daily Trust the African of the Year award for 2018. The girls, Stacy Owino, Purity Achieng, Ivy Akinyi, Synthia Otieno and Macrine Atieno – from the western Kenyan city of Kisumu – won the coveted award for developing a mobile application called “I-cut”. The application has become a very useful tool in the war against Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). Although FGM is illegal in Kenya, it is still widely practiced in the country and many other countries in Africa and around the world. I-cut is a slick mobile application that connects girls at risk of circumcision with rescue centres. It also gives legal and medical help to those who have been subjected to FGM. The teenagers, called “the Restorers”, were Africa’s only representatives at Google’s 2017 Technovation Challenge which took place in Silicon Valley, California, USA. The girls’ team leader, Stacy Owino, was presented a cash prize of $25,000 at the award dinner in Abuja, organised in their honour. In her remarks, Stacy said the award came as a surprise to the team, considering the calibre of the previous winners. “The award has come to me that no matter how little what you do, in reality, it contributes positively to the society. “We never expected this award but look at us now, it is that little thing that we do that really makes difference in the society,” she said, adding that the $25,000 prize would help in making the app to be in use. Chairman of the prize committee and former president of Botswana, Mr Festus Mogae, said after scrutinizing the profiles of the nominees, the committee was “unanimous in its decision to award the 2018 Prize to The Restorers”, referring to the young girls. He said the “i-cut” app “could not be timelier” at a period when “more than 200 million girls and women alive today have been cut in thirty (30) countries in Africa, the Middle-East and Asia where Female Genital Mutilation is concentrated.” “It is my hope that the award recipients will motivate a movement towards enhanced awareness about Female Genital Mutilation through their newly developed application, particularly in this digital age,” he said. “I have no doubt that every one of you will excel in your future roles and contribute to the future well-being of society, our continent and the world at large,” he added. Daily Trust hosts African of the Year winners to dinner in Abuja Kenyan schoolgirls win Daily Trust African of the Year Award Kenyan schoolgirls win Daily Trust African of the Year award