The Senator representing Kano South Senatorial District, Arch Kabiru Gaya has sponsored 100 science teachers to train at  the Scientific Equipment Development Institute (SEDI), Minna, Niger state. The first batch of 40 teachers commenced training at the Institute yesterday, while the remaining 60 were expected to start soon. Speaking at the flag-off of the training, the Senator said the programme was desirable because of the dearth of science teachers in schools across the country. He said the benefiting teachers were drawn from 40 secondary schools across the 16 local government areas that make up the senatorial district. The senator said he has concluded plans to equip the affected schools with science equipment manufactured from the Institute so that the teachers already trained could effectively apply the knowledge acquired to the benefit of the students. He said already, schools across the senatorial district have adequate classrooms as he has been able to intervene by constructing about 220 blocks of classroom to complement the efforts of the state government. Also speaking, the Managing Director/Chief Executive of the Institute, Professor Mohammed Ndaliman, said the training of science teachers was an opportunity for science schools to benefit from the Institute’s knowhow and also benefit from the equipment produced by it. He regretted that many science based schools in the country are bereft of basic knowledge of practical because of lack of science equipment even though such facility are manufactured at the Institute. He said the Institute has been able to meet its vision of creating an enabling environment for local mass production of standard parts, good and services required for the nation’s technological advancement. He urged science based schools to explore the potentials that abound and the Institute in order to achieve the federal government vision of a technological self-sufficient nation. Niger approves N869m for classroom furniture, science equipment Bring back Nigeria’s teachers’ colleges! Senator Umaru says state of basic education in Niger “appalling”