It was a renaissance of some sort. The initiators of what has become an annual event acknowledged that there is urgent need for a revival; a reconnect with the past to be able to shape the future, using culture as the springboard. At the Paigokni Cultural Fiesta penultimate Saturday in Paiko town, Paikoro Local Government Area of Niger state, there were many of such rich cultural heritage of Gbagyi people on display through the various troupes that graced the occasion. As has always been the custom at every Gbagyi cultural festival, the masquerades led the way with their slow and enthralling dance steps as they embarked on their clearing journey around the U.K Bello Primary School venue of the event. “They have to first cleanse the arena with their mystical powers before other cultural dancers perform,” one of the organisers told North Central Trust. Like most tribes in Nigeria, the Gbagyis also hold the age long belief that the masquerades serve as link between them and the ancestors. They are clad in colourful robes and masks made of wood or fabric. They are of different types and their costumes represent their roots. As Kushi Vnavna, Kushi Manjiwa and Kushi Gbando filed out in style with their distinctive dance steps the crowd could not help but cheer and clap. Kushi Gbando was particularly a marvel as he held the audience spellbound by gyrating to the rhythm on sticks. The masquerades were followed by cultural groups which included Yagnyi, Gyefu, Gbabo, Gbmyinu and Mandawa in their other of importance and ancestry. There was also local boxing match, while other tribes and cultural associations resident in the town and environs like the Hausa, Igbo, Fulani, Yoruba, Kadara and Koro joined their host in celebration. The event also showcased  various arts and craft of the people. The weavers and pottery makers of Tatiko, a Gbagyi community noted for their skills in those crafts demonstrated to the admiration of the audience. It was also a soul-searching moment and the creme dela creme of Paigokni were present. Paigokni is a coinage which means Paiko land. According to the former Nigeria’s ambassador to Poland, Malam Zuibaru Dada, Paigokni Development Association emerged out of the shell of an older body called Paikoro Development Association that went moribund. Ambassador Dada, who is the president of the association, maintained that the objective of the annual festival, which commenced in 2016, was to revive the culture of the Gbagyis and reawaken the consciousness of its people to the declining use of its language by the people. According to him, Gbagyi people are hitherto identified through their rich culture, language and arts and crafts, but lamented that over the years these heritage are on the decline because of external interferences. “Not only that, even our language is being threatened by other  influences which is normal but it is important to draw the attention of our people to the need to safeguard this precious thing that distinguishes us from others,” he explained. He said the influences which threatened the Gbagyi language and culture were  modernity as well as contact with other languages and their culture. “Take Hausa for instance, everybody speaks the language in office, market and even in our homes. Agreed that Hausa is the language of commerce here but we must not forget that our own language is under threat by this influence,” he lamented. He also pointed out that the arrival of Islam and Christianity equally played significant role in the decline of the Gbagyi culture and tradition. “In embracing these two religions, we seem to do away with some practice that also stand us out from other tribes. So we felt the younger generation needs to have an idea of where we are coming from and be part of the renewal process because they are the people that will be handed this cultural baton and takeover from us like we did from our forebears, “ he explained. He said the situation was serious that an average Gbagyi youth could  hardly even identify a particular food peculiar to Gbagyi people, adding that the growing inability of Gbagyis to speak their language, understand their culture and other things that are peculiar to them was also affecting the need for them to speak with one voice and collectively fight for their rights. Dada said focusing on a fiesta was the way to go. “It is the best way to start,” he pointed out, adding “to bring everybody together in on this revival mission, we have to use culture as the unifying tool.” He said the association was also using the fiesta as a sensitisation tool on the need for parents to ensure that Gbagyi becomes the language of interaction in their respective homes. He also stressed that the association is encouraging the youths to embrace skills acquisition and sensitising parents on the importance of  educating their wards especially the girl-child. Other speakers at the event including Governor Abubakar Sani Bello reechoed the same worries and speak in the same tone, while commending the association for initiating the revival strategy. Represented by the Commissioner of Water Resources and Dam Development, Alhaji Mamman Adamu, Governor Bello expressed delight that the concept of the festival is for the typical Gbagyi to rediscover his historical background that is full of positive activities and advised others to emulate same. The former Niger state Governor Dr Muazu Babangida Aliyu in his remarks explained that without culture people will not appreciate who they are. “For example if you go to other countries even in Africa they have been so colonized that you don’t see their cultural values in them but only the European values thus the importance of the gathering,” he noted. As the association returns to the boardroom, speakers acknowledged that the revival journey would be long and tortuous given the extent of decline already witnessed. They urged it to come up with an enduring roadmap that would serve as a compass through which it can reach the right destination. But they also agreed that in doing so, there is need to flip back at the past to be able to periscope the future looking at the long history that Pagokni has to endure overtime. Like most Gbagyi land, there are conflicting accounts of the real origin of Paiko people in Niger state. While some link the ancestry to Gwandu in the present  Kebbi state, others are of the opinion that they may have migrated from Borno along with other cousins in other locations. However, Ambassador Dada said the history of Paiko Gbagyis was as long as those of other cousins elsewhere. According to him, his forebears had resided on the popular Paiko hills which served as protective fortress for external invaders of those days, adding that the people have dwelled in the area for more than 200 years now. He explained that the different locations the Gbagyi people find themselves occasion for their dialectical variations due to contact with other ethnic groups. However,there is a universal uniformity in the way they dress, dances, arts and crafts as well as their diets. Experts said such unification may yet aid the revival Paigokni desperately sought and champion. Gbagyis launch cultural revival, say tribe faces extinction Thrills and frills of Gbagyi cultural displays Paiko: Where Gbagyi princes used to run off with maidens from the market square