Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said former president Olusegun Obasanjo was acting the script of the opposition, by his attack on the present administration. Obasanjo had in his state of the nation address on Sunday described Trade Moni, a scheme under Osinbajo’s as “outrightly idiotic.” Osinbajo in a statement by his media, Mr. Laolu Akande said Trader Moni was designed to meet the need of the larger population of petty traders in the country. “Being a former president, Chief Obasanjo ordinarily should appreciate the impact of such far reaching social investment schemes, which has provided what is now the largest social safety net for millions of Nigerians, and is unprecedented in the nation’s history. “Again, the former president’s attack on TraderMoni and the person of the Vice President is an indicator that he may be wittingly or unwittingly playing to the sinister script of the opposition party to spread falsehood and attack the social investment programmes of the Buhari administration which champions such impactful schemes, and which is now attracting the praise and commendation of Nigerians everywhere. “It is pertinent to state that the false allegations against TraderMoni raised again by the former president is sadly a rehash of baseless claims previously made by leading chieftains of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, whose record of profligacy, corruption and mismanagement clearly show it has no agenda to uplift the common man or improve the lives of Nigerians. “Finally, attacks such as this on a scheme that benefits the masses of our people is a direct attack on the people and this kind of conduct does not reflect very well on a former president, but is only self-denigrating and of no public value. As is already now obvious, the generality of the Nigerian people will not only reject that attack, but will also condemn its source.” he said. He urged the former president to be far more circumspect and more public-spirited in his utterances going forward. Obasanjo labels Osinbajo-led Tradermoni scheme "idiotic" "We'll use Nigeria's money for all Nigerians” – Osinbajo 2019 elections: 8 most unusual campaign moves