Governments at all levels in this country should invest in building the capacity of youths for them to contribute valuably to Nigeria’s progress, Emir of Gombe, HRH Abubakar Shehu-Abubakar III, said at the 16th Daily Trust Dialogue in Abuja yesterday. It had the theme, “Youth and Democracy: The Nigerian Challenge”. According to the royal father, Nigerian youths are active, idealistic and determined to work toward national development but they require an environment that is conducive to achieve that. The Emir, who was also the special guest of honour at the event, said failure to provide an enabling environment for the youth, the country should be ready for the consequences, which, he said, may not be palatable. He said, “Nigeria has a large proportion of youths in the population, a substantial number that cannot be ignored. The average Nigerian youth is active, idealistic and determined. What the youth requires is a conducive environment to build its capacity and contribute valuably to Nigeria’s progress and prosperity. But where this is lacking, then, we should all be ready for the consequences which may not be palatable.” The royal father also said young people had played critical roles in  Nigeria’s democratic process and their presence in leadership positions brings modernity and innovation in their service. He said there were many international best practices from which Nigeria could learn. He said, “There are also several international instruments to inspire us in addition to existing legal and regulatory mechanisms that require us to ensure the full participation of Nigerian youths in the continent’s democratic process.” Since his ascension to the throne as Emir, he said he had been consistent in his support for youth development and good governance in Gombe State, in Nigeria and beyond. He said his effort in promoting girl-child education and reducing the menace of out-of-school children has recorded significant progress. This, he said, was achieved by constructing modern Islamic schools and enrolling over 3,000 orphans and vulnerable children in formal schools, among other youth-targeted interventions. The emir was accompanied to the occasion by a very large entourage made of government officials and traditional title holders from Gombe State as well as members of the Gombe community resident in Abuja. 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Youth participation in democracy promotes active citizenship – Emir of Gombe Eid-el-Kabir: Emir advocates agricultural programmes for youths to check restiveness World democracy day: Group wants more youth inclusion