President Muhammadu Buhari has done for Nigeria within only three and a half years infrastructural projects that the PDP couldn’t do in the 16 years it ruled the country, the convener of Re-elect Buhari Movement (RBM), Mr Emmanuel Umoh Inyang, has said. Inyang, in an interaction with journalists at the weekend, described what he called the rise in power supply, construction of roads across the country and the president’s effort to curb corruption as worthy achievements that should make all Nigerians support President Buhari for another term. Stressing that many members of the RBM weren’t even members of the APC, the convener said their resolve to support Buhari was reinforced by a declaration by the late lawyer and human rights activist, Gani Fawehinmi, in 2007 that Buhari was a honest leader with good intentions to redirect Nigeria for good. “Outside that endorsement by the great lawyer, we’ve taken our time to critically appraise Nigeria’s leadership from 1999 to 2015 and we couldn’t fault that position the erudite lawyer took. “We saw President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration from 1999 to 2007 and Atiku Abubakar was his vice. We saw Yar’adua’s brief rule and also Dr Goodluck Jonathan’s government. The misrule of all those years drove our zeal to gather ourselves and resolve that we mustn’t sit on the fence. “We tasked ourselves on what we must do to ensure Nigeria is taken away from the path of destruction that 16 years of PDP had put it on. “It was on that note that we threw our weight behind President Buhari. One can’t compare the great deeds of Buhari in under four years with the 16 wasted years of the PDP. “RBM is a child of destiny working to project the great works of the Buhari administration. Membership cuts across political parties, professions and different bodies. I am not even a member of the APC,” Inyang said.  ‘Aisha Buhari has redefined First Lady office’ “Mrs. Buhari has carved positive niche for First Lady’s office” Buhari approves Amaechi as campaign DG