The governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has said the South-west will reciprocate President Muhammadu Buhari’s kind gestures to the region by ensuring that he gets a landslide victory in the February 19 presidential election. Besides, the governor said Buhari’s overall impressive performance across the country since coming on board was enough reason for the people to vote for him for a second term. Ajimobi, who is also the APC candidate for Oyo South senatorial district in the coming election, declared this during a meeting with 67 interest groups in the state, in company of the APC governorship candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, and party chairman, Chief Akin Oke. Among the groups were traders’ associations, drivers’ unions, market and food sellers associations, Christian and Muslim bodies, independent broadcasters, artistes and youth groups. Apart from keeping faith with an illustrious son of the region, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, as his running mate, Ajimobi said Buhari has done for the South-west what had eluded the region under the 16 years of PDP leadership. The governor said, “Buhari is not a match for other candidates in the presidential race. This election will indicate if Nigerians really want progress or retrogression. You cannot compare a lion with a cat, although they are both in the cat family. “It will be an election between light and darkness; an election between pig and cattle egret. It is an election between integrity and corruption. After 16 years of looting, they have come back like nothing has happened. “They abandoned the most important road in the entire South-west, if not the country – Lagos-Ibadan expressway – for 16 years, Buhari came and started fixing it. He started the light trail rail project along the same axis and it is almost completed. “I trust our people. They are the most sophisticated when it comes to politics, so they have made up their minds. They will vote Buhari and he will record a landslide victory in the South-west. We will reciprocate these kind gestures. Alao-Akala moves for second term in Oyo 2019: I won’t impose any candidate, Ajimobi assures APC members APC primaries: Ajimobi clinches Oyo South Senatorial Ticket