The rivalry between Governor Abdulaziz Yari and the Group 8 over the botched Zamfara State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary has moved to the state House of Assembly, splitting its ranks.  The rivalry between Governor Abdulaziz Yari and eight governorship aspirants, including his deputy, Alhaji Ibrahim Wakkala Muhammad, known as Group 8 (G8), has intensified. The frosty relationship between the governor and the group started ahead of the October 7 All Progressives Congress governorship primary elections, where the G8 rejected the governor’s preferred aspirant and state commissioner for finance, Alhaji Mukhtar Shehu Idris. The deputy governor had aligned himself with the G8 to scuttle the polls. Group 8 members vying for the governorship seat are Senator Kabiru Marafa; the deputy governor; the lawmaker representing Birnin Magaji/ Kaura Namoda federal constituency, Alhaji Sani Jaji, Alhaji Sagir Hamidu Gusau. Others are former federal permanent secretary, Alhaji Abu Magaji; former Governor Mahmud Aliyu Shinkafi; Alhaji Dauda Lawal Dare and the Minister of Defence, Brigadier-General Mansur Dan-Ali (retd). Now, the battle has shifted to the state House of Assembly. Seven members loyal to the G8 have rejected the tenure extension of the local government chairmen earlier endorsed by other members of the Assembly. The Assembly has 24 members. Those who rejected the tenure extension are the chief whip, Abdullahi Mohammed Dansadau; deputy chief whip, Mallam Mani Mallam Mumuni; Hon Salisu Musa Tsafe; Hon Dayyabu Adamu Rijiya; Hon Munsur Ahmed Musa Bungudu; Hon Hashimu M. Shehu Gazura and Hon Abubakar Ajiya Nasarawa. Last Wednesday, the state government had announced the extension of the tenure of all 14 chairmen of elected local government councils in the state by three months, beginning from January 2 to April 2, 2019. However, before the rejection of the extension, four members that kicked against the move were suspended by the Assembly at an emergency sitting in what the House leader, Hon Isa Abdulmumni, described as acts of indiscipline and disobedience to the government and leadership of the Assembly. Hon Abdulmumni is considered by many political pundits as Governor Yari’s close political ally. But speaking on behalf of those who rejected the tenure extension of the local government chairmen, Hon Tsafe said the seven lawmakers were initially marked for suspension, so the action on the four was to serve as warning to the rest. According to Tsafe, the extension of the tenure of the elected council chairmen was most unwarranted and without justification whatsoever as there was no compelling causes for not conducting election in the  councils. He said: “The extension of the tenure of the 14 council chairmen is an aberration to the terms and spirit of the 1999 constitution, as well as the Zamfara State local government law, 2012, as amended, which has the effect of converting the officials of the councils to appointees of the governor of Zamfara State to do or execute the wishes of the said governor against the will of the good people of Zamfara State.” They asked Governor Yari to forward a proposal and names of sole administrators/caretaker committees to the House of Assembly for approval/confirmation to replace the 14 expired council chairmen, in the interim. Earlier, the vice chairmen of Zurmi, Birnin-Magaji and Gummi local government areas were sacked over alleged alliance with some members of the Group 8. The vice chairman of Zurmi Local Government, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, told Daily Trust on Sunday that they rejected the sack and insisted that they were still bonafide members of the All Progressives Congress. He said that nothing had warranted the action, except for their political opinion. “Yes, we were sacked owing to our political views. I was sacked because I’m for the deputy governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Wakkala Muhammad. My colleagues, the vice chairmen of Gummi and Birnin Magaji local governments were sacked over their ties with Dr Dauda Lawal Dare and Alhaji Aminu Sani Jaji,” Dauran said. In December last year, when Governor Yari travelled out of the state, he appointed the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Alhaji Sanusi Garba Rikiji to act as the executive governor, even when the deputy governor was available. The director of press to the deputy governor, Alhaji Yusuf Idris told Daily Trust on Sunday that his principal was stripped of his many rights and powers, and was not invited to State Executive Council and security meetings. Other issues are none release of funds to run the office for six months and none invitation to any state government functions and programmes. Also, some ministries and agencies were removed from the office of the deputy governor, including the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, the Zamfara State Pilgrims Welfare Board and Zamfara State Emergency Relief Management, among others. However, when asked during a press conference why he appointed the speaker as acting governor instead of his deputy, Governor Yari said, “It is about politics, and when it comes to politics I will comment on that.” A couple of weeks ago, the deputy governor had, in an interview with Daily Trust on Sunday in Gusau, cried out that he was being financially persecuted by the state government since  he  declared his ambition to contest for the governorship office. “I can tell you that since I declared my ambition for the position of a governor in the state, my official entitlements have been stopped,” he lamented. According to him, there were cuts in his salaries, and sometimes the payments were erratic. “I’m paying some of these aides and other staff from my entitlements. For instance, we are feeding the security operatives attached to my office, as well as managing many official engagements. What is the offence of all the members of staff?” he asked. Yari plans to sue as G8 insists on primaries APC: Marafa, Wakala, others team up against Gov Yari in Zamfara Grumbling in states as govs anoint successors