Elder statesman and a Second Republic politician, Alhaji Isyaku Ibrahim, in this interview spoke on his relationship with the late former president, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, and how he made it to the Number One seat in Nigeria. How did you meet the late President Shagari? President Shehu Shagari was a good man and a man of integrity. I met Alhaji Shehu Shagari in 1967 in Paris.  I was introduced to him by the late Alhaji  Abdulmalik. Abdulmalik had given me a message that he wanted to see me and when I got to his place, he was with Alhaji Shehu Shagari.  He asked if I knew the former president and I told him that I only know him on the pages of newspaper. Abdulmalik then said he wanted me to work with Shagari for the four days that he would spend there and I said, no problem. We spent four days together and during that period he never said anything without carefully thinking about it.   Some days later, after Shagari had returned to Nigeria, I went to the Alhaji Abdulmalik’s office and he asked me what I thought of the late president and I said “he is a gentleman, cultured, civilised and humble”. I said he is a Prime Minister material. Then Abdulmalik asked me to sit down and I did. He then asked me if I could keep a secret and I said, yes. He then told me that they, the leaders, were grooming four people- the late  Usman Seriki, who became the Etsu Nupe, he was then the Minister of Internal Affairs,   Alhaji  Shehu  Shagari, who became Minister for Establishment and was a Permanent Secretary to Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, the late Maitama Sule and the late Ibrahim Waziri. Those were the four people they were grooming but they were more interested in President Shehu Shagari. So he was shocked the way I said , he is a Prime Minister material. At that time we were under a parliamentary system of government which was why I made that comment.  How did Shagari become a nominee for the presidency? The late Shagari did not know anything until that morning in Murtala square. He came in as a senatorial candidate and Sokoto State had no candidate for the presidency. The only person who knew about the plan of the leaders apart from me was Umaru Dikko. He was then the acting National Secretary of the NPN. Umaru Dikko was a friend of my elder brother so I told him that I would tell him a secret and he promised to keep it. Then, we had 10 Northern states and each state had five delegates. Aliyu Makaman Bidda was the patron. He opened the conference and said they were given opportunity to produce three people. They started with Kano Zone and Kano brought Maitama Sule, Inuwa Wada and Dr. Datti Ahmed. Borno brought Adamu Ciroma and Chancellor. Gongola brought Professor Nyabo, Bauchi brought Ibrahim, Benue, J.S  Tar Ka, Kwara brought Dr. Sola Saraki. So when they came to Plateau, because I was the head of  the delegation from Plateau, I ask them for a favour. I said I would like us to nominate Alhaji Shehu Shagari, then Yahya Sabiu said, “you are the leader of the delegation, whatever you say we give you our mandate.” Abdullahi Adamu said,  if not because I had mentioned it, he was going to vote for Adamu Ciroma, but since I am the leader, he would go for Shehu Shagari. So,when they came to Plateau, I stood up and said  Alhaji Shehu Shagari from Sokoto, we, the people from Plateau are nominating you as our presidential candidate. The place went silent for about a minute, Aliyu Makaman Bidda then asked me, Mallam Isyaku, we are talking of the Presidency of Nigeria and I said, “yes, Plateau people are supporting Shehu Shagari”.  Niger did not bring anybody. In fact the North-Central did not bring anybody. Aliyu  Makaman Bidda was our patron from Niger and Umaru Dikko was the acting National Secretary from the North-Central, so they had no candidates. Our decision shocked everyone and we then went into voting. Alhaji Shehu Shagari had 26, Adamu Ciroma had 24, because he was the candidate of the military, Prof Nyabo Abubakar and Dr Olusola Saraki were tied on 19 votes. So, we were asked to bring three and already we had four. Kano,  Maitama Sule had 18, Inuwa Wada had 3, Dr Datti Ahmed only one, Ibrahim Dahiru had one vote, JS Tarka had 17, Chancellor had 16. So they just decided that we should take six to Lagos.  We took six persons to Lagos. I organized a publication of a small pamphlet, four pages on Alhaji Shehu Shagari. In-between, I had been to M.D Yusuf, who was the head of security to ask him questions. I asked how was Alhaji Shehu Shagari when he was a minister, was he corrupt? And  MD Yusuf said, “Alhaji  Shehu Shagari is Mr. Clean.”  What happened after that? When it was time for the convention to elect the national chairman, Adisa Akinloye, came to me and said he wanted to be the National Chairman. I said okay go and negotiate with the Kano delegates, all what I want is 90 votes. I will give you Plateau, split Niger and North Central. He said, “really”? I said, “yes”. Chief Fani-Kayode was my leader when he was a Deputy Premier, he also told me that he wanted to be a chairman and I said ‘I would not support you, sir’. Fani-Kayode was my political boss, he was the Chairman at my wedding. He asked why and I said, “because I know you”.  I knew Fani Kayode and Alhaji Shehu Shagari were different. Shagari was a peaceful man, while Fani-Kayode was controversial. The third person was General Adebayo, he was in Kaduna, but when he went to Ibadan, he said he wanted to be the National Chairman and I also refused.  What was the outcome of the NPN convention and how did Shagari emerge as the presidential candidate? Finally, Akinloye emerged as National Chairman. Even though I knew he was very crafty, he was peaceful and I knew he would work with Shehu Shagari.  We went for the election and Alhaji Shehu Shagari had 11000 votes but did not have the required numbers. Maitama Sule had about 700 votes, Adamu Ciroma, 400, Sola Saraki, 300, JS Tarka, 300.  So, they all conceded and that was how Alhaji Shehu Shagari became the candidate.  How would you describe the Shagari government? It was a government with a focus and it had programmes designed for the progress and development of Nigeria. We had two key words in our manifesto i.e food and shelter. People can say whatever they want to say, but no one can say that he was corrupt. I  would not have promoted Alhaji Shehu Shagari if he had been corrupt. In the four years and three months he was president, there was no one single political prisoner. There was no cabal in his government.  Tell us a little about the  Shagari’s book launch… I organised the book launch with his permission. I said the book should be launched in Woodrow Wilson House (Washington D.C)  with the  American president,  who conducted the First World War and his successor. He was a very peaceful and decent man and Shagari was like that too, so I asked that his book be launched in that house. Senator Edward Kennedy was the chief speaker during the launch of that book and Ambassador Andrew Young was the chairman. A lot of American dignitaries, including some American senators said they had never been to that house till the day of the book launch.  Ministers in Nigeria and all our friends like the late Umaru Dikko and many others also attended the event. Memories of Shehu Shagari Shagari Buried in Country Home Shagari in symbolic  birthday celebration