The Director general of APC campaign organisation in Yobe state said that peoples Democratic Party has no hope in the state. The DG, who spoke at the inauguration of the Executives of Concerned Marketers Solidarity Forum (CMSF) for Buni,  Bra-bra and Khadija, said that Yobe State had been the comfort zone of APC and it would always be. He said that the administration strides of Governor Ibrahim Gaidam and President Muhammadu Buhari have  given them reason to campaign massively and ensure the victory of the party at all levels. He said that improved security situation, electricity generation and agriculture by Buhari-led administration in Yobe had convinced electorate to give him one million votes in the February 16 presidential election. He said the state government, under the leadership of Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, had also constructed multi billion naira airport, road networks, effective education and healthcare system in the state. “The Cargo international Airport, is meant to boost the lives of the people, especially businessmen in the state. Also, the state government has planned to compensate houses at heart of the town to construct modern market,” he said. The coordinator of the forum, Alhaji Ngoma Garba, said it was meant to create several windows for canvassing of votes for all candidates of the APC at all levels. “We did critical analysis on the track record of President Muhammadu Buhari in the area developmental projects and programmes especially on anti-corruption crusade, revenue generation in the non-oil sector and job creation before we settled on him to continue as Nigeria’s president,” he said. He said the constant financial assistance by Governor Ibrahim Gaidam to their members in times of disaster and his tremendous achievements in education, health, commerce and rural development had endeared them to work for the APC in the 2019 general election.  Yobe: Gaidam asks campaign c’ttee to deliver all positions Campaign: Why we told Buhari not to visit Yobe - Gaidam Buhari’s campaign train arrives Damaturu amidst jubilation