The Chief Justice of Nigeria Walter Samuel Onnoghen has personally received a summons to appear before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) to answer to a case of non-declaration of assets. An official of the tribunal, who is privy to the information, confirmed that the charge and summons have been personally received by the CJN on Monday. The source, who asked for anonymity, said the CJN personally appended his signature to the summons when the officials of the tribunal took it to his office at the Supreme Court on Monday. He said the entire process was smooth as the CJN told the officials that he was already waiting for them. He said the officials that went to serve the summons went in company of some police officers attached to the tribunal so as to make the move seamless. He added that the rumoured siege on the CJN home by officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) must have been misconstrued by people because of the presence of the policemen who went with the tribunal officials to effect the service. The federal government in a six-count charge filed at the CCT on January 11 accused Nigeria’s head of the judiciary of failing to declare his assets between June 2005 and December 2016. When the matter came up on Monday, Justice Onnoghen was absent at the tribunal but was represented by a team of over 90 lawyers, including over 40 Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN) led by Wole Olanipekun. His lawyers had informed the tribunal that the CJN was not properly served with the summons as provided by Section 123 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), which directed that in a criminal case, the summons must be personally served on the defendant. The lawyers also informed the tribunal of a motion challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal to hear the case. The chairman of the tribunal’s three-man panel, Danladi Umar, had subsequently adjourned proceedings to January 22 to allow proper service of the summons. He had also ruled that the CJN’s application challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal and the prosecution’s motion on notice would be taken together on the day. Asset declaration: CCB formally serves summons on CJN Onnoghen Why tribunal adjourned Onnoghen’s arraignment BREAKING: I was not properly served with summons - CJN Onnoghen