Ex-agitators under the aegis of Coalition of Niger Delta ex-Agitators, Phase II have accused the Senior Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Amnesty, Prof. Quaker Dokubo of showing lukewarm attitude towards mobilization of support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s reelection by sidelining the ex-agitators who are already mobilizing support for the president’s re-election at the grassroots. In a press statement issued in Abuja by some of the aggrieved leaders of the group, and signed by Thomas Ibori and Aniekan Victor, the ex-agitators lamented that the Amnesty boss has sidelined the leadership of the ex-agitators, who are the main reason for the programme in the first place. According to the statement, the ex-agitators accused the Amnesty boss of dealing with those they describe as ‘ghost contractors’ instead of the real ones as a way of “self-enrichment.” “We are raising this alarm this time around to call the attention of the president on how the attitude of Prof Dokubo is alienating committed ex-Niger Delta agitators who had before now vowed to mobilise votes for the president in the region. “Professor Dokubo has been telling everyone that he has been carrying leaders of Amnesty Phase II beneficiaries along. But we make bold to say that this is not the true position of things. We challenge him to name the Phase II leaders in the entire nine Niger Delta states he is dealing with as none amongst the leaders that we know of has acknowledged being empowered. “Our investigation has revealed some unwholesome activities at the Amnesty Office where non beneficiaries and even ‘ghost’ contractors are the ones the Amnesty boss is dealing with thereby neglecting the real beneficiaries. “Sadly, there are allegations the Prof Dokubo’s preferred contractors only collect the contract sum without empowering or training any ex-agitator or beneficiaries. “This alarm is necessary because the beneficiaries are the ones working at the grassroots for the reelection of President Buhari in the Niger Delta and the ‘body language’ of Prof Dokubo shows that he is not favorably disposed to mobilization of votes for the president in the region and his ultimate reelection. “How else does one explain the total sidelining of leaders of Phase II in preference to people totally unknown to the group and in many cases to non-existent groups? How else does one explain the deliberate sidelining of the real leaders of ex-agitators who are already neck-deep in mobilizing massive support for the president’s reelection in the region? “We call on the president whom we know has lofty intentions for the region to call Prof Dokubo to order before he (Dokubo) goes the way of his predecessors who saw the program as an avenue for self-enrichment and rolls back the progress already made in calming the region.” 'Support Buhari’s re-election for good work to continue' N/Delta ex-agitators drum support for amnesty boss N/Delta ex- agitators, FG partner on elections