There was massive turn out of people at Ramat Square where President Muhammadu Buhari led his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, to hold a presidential rally in Maiduguri on Monday. Many enthusiastic supporters scaled to the pavilions around the square in an effort to have a good view of the event and show their support for the President. President Buhari  was earlier received at the airport by Gov Kashim Shettima from where he proceeded to the palace of the Shehu of Borno on a courtesy visit. In his address Gov Shettima said that Borno was the natural home of the President and the people would continue to give their massive support. Shettima thanked the President for the many projects he has executed in the state and his effort to ensure that peace reigned in the state in the face of attacks by Boko Haram insurgents. Also speaking the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole thanked the people for their massive support to the president and the party. He urged them to vote in the party’s candidates at all levels in the forthcoming election. In his address President Buhari thanked the people for coming out en mass to receive him. He said his government would continue with its three cardinal programmes of ensuring security, improving the economy and fighting corruption. He said as the result of the massive investment in agriculture he was delighted to see that Nigeria was on its way to attaining food self-sufficiency. He promised not to disappoint them if re-elected. Other speakers at the rally included the National leader of the party Bola Tinubu and the Director General of the Presidential Campaign Council, Rotimi Amaechi. Highlights of the event was the presentation of the party’s flag to its governorship candidate, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, and receiving some prominent defectors into the party led by a former governor of the state, Mohammed Goni. Massive crowd receives Buhari in Maiduguri Shettima: Boko Haram not occupying any Borno LG Buhari campaign train arrives Maiduguri