Governor Kashim Shettima, yesterday, listed two mistakes he said leaders and stakeholders of the APC in Borno State cannot make ahead of the February and March elections. The governor spoke when he inaugurated the APC campaign council and different committees tasked with various activities ahead of the elections. “There are two mistakes we should never make. The first mistake will be to underestimate our opponents in any party. There are those who assume that I, Kashim Shettima underrates opponents,” the governor said. “They say so because they don’t know me well enough. I do not underrate opponents. What I do is to foresee opponents and neutralize them long before the contest. “There were those who thought I was being naive by the way we have been handling things but as Allah would ordain it, the more they underestimate us, the more we succeed,” he said. Shettima called on every member of the APC to campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari’s reelection bid. “I also want us to know that helping Buhari should not be limited to getting him serious votes. It will also entail mobilizing and working legally to deny his opponents votes in the state. “The second mistake we should never make is for anyone to nurse the intention of working against an APC candidate in anyway. As stakeholders you should bear in mind that, your political reputation will lie with your collaborative effort to win all elections within your area. “For instance, losing MMC, Chibok, Hawul, Askira Uba, Biu or anywhere to PDP will only make stakeholders from these local government areas to lose the legitimacy of bargaining for any political privileges within the APC in Borno State. “Moreover, you should always bear in mind that the electorate are not robots that you tell to vote APC in one ballot paper and vote PDP in another ballot paper,” he said. ‘Governor Shettima didn’t betray Sheriff’ Why Shettima has firm grip of Borno politics – Bwala Borno 2019: Sheriff wants to manipulate Buhari, Oshiomhole – Ex-Deputy Governor