The Labour Party, Ogun State Chapter, has endorsed the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress ,Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka ahead of the March 2 election in the state. The State Chairman of the party, Biodun Owolabi and the Secretary, Sunday Ogini disclosed this during a stakeholders meeting held at the Labour Party Secretariat in Abeokuta . Owolabi who explained that the decision to adopt Isiaka as the party governorship candidate in the coming election was discussed at the state executive council meeting . The Chairman also added that, the adoption was done after series of assessment of other candidates and consultation with the party leaders in the state. The Secretary of the party also reaffirmed the party’s resolution to support the ADC gubernatorial candidate. His words “Why are we here?. The purpose we are here was mooted at the state exco . We believe in his (Isiaka’s) candidature and he had once been with us as part of us. “We must have a solid accord with the most qualified governorship candidate in Ogun State owing to his integrity. “We must remember that Politics is about coalition and politics is about alliances. The reality on ground is that the only person that is competent and contesting for the governorship position in Ogun is GNI and his blue print is everywhere. “We know that the only person we can team up with is GNI. It is on this note that at the state executive meeting, we have agreed to work for GNI.” In his response , Isiaka thanked the party for the endorsement, even as he urged the warring faction of the party to close ranks in the interest of peace. He said ” I heard that LP adopted me as governorship candidate and I was asked to come to show gratitude . “I appreciate what this exco has done. That is why I came with my leaders in the party . “I am running for governor, this is the third time and without 2011 there cannot be 2015 election and without 2015 election ,there cannot be 2019 election. “This is a product you have invested in . Your product is going to the market again, it is your duty to market your product.”