One of the “New Breed” presidential aspirants, Ahmed Buhari has provided further insights into the failure of the young presidential aspirants to come together, blaming it on ego among them. Besides, Buhari who hails from Niger State, said other aspirants failed to understand the present political realities as they deliberately jettisoned the North where the big parties have zoned their ticket. Buhari, who is the Presidential Candidate of the Sustainable National Party of Nigeria, (SNP) told newsmen it appeared the young candidates had planned to fail. Daily Trust reports that the 2019 electioneering propped many relatively young candidates who are within the age bracket of 40-60. Following the high volume of aspirants, there were moves to form an alliance which would produce a consensus candidate that would represent the youth in the election, leading to the formation of Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT). However, the PACT arrangement did not produce much result as only few of the aspirants respected the PACT’s outcome which produced Fela Durotoye as the candidate as other aspirants went their separate ways and emerged presidential candidates of other parties. Our correspondent reports that Prof. Wole Soyinka met the young candidates last week in Lagos to explore the possibility of alliance but many of the candidates did not attend the meeting. A follow-up meeting scheduled for Abuja did not also hold amidst the insistence of the candidates to go their own way. But providing insights into why the plan did not work out, Buhari noted that he personally reached out to all the aspirants who either reluctantly held the meetings with him or saw no sense in his discussions with them. He also disclosed that he personally discussed a Buhari/Moghalu ticket with the Presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Prof. Kingsley Moghalu but the latter rebuffed the suggestion. The CEO of Skylar Inc., an ICT firm based in Lagos, said most of the aspirants did not consider the reality that a northerner would emerge as the next President in line with the informal zoning arrangement. He said: “Unfortunately, many people will still disagree with my political calculations but those who have been on the field can clearly see that the expectations of the electorate is to have a northern president for 2019. “Very importantly, we must understand that the electorate must always be included in our political calculations. I have heard many people say it is unfortunate to think of picking a young northerner to contest against the two older contestants from the north (President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar) while all the southern contenders give their full support to that northerner as we break the system. “But when it came to selecting a running mate, all the southern contestants picked a northerner as a running mate. If it is solely about competence then how come no candidate chose another southerner as a running mate?” Soyinka urges consensus among young presidential candidates 2019 Presidency: Moghalu rejects Durotoye’s emergence as consensus candidate PACT’s consensus candidate, Fela Durotoye picks ANN presidential forms