The strategic partnership between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) on foreign exchange supplies and sustenance of market integrity helped naira stability last year. ABCON President, Aminu Gwadabe, disclosed this to newsmen at the end of year briefing in Lagos, yesterday. He said both the apex bank and ABCON worked together in the course of the year to achieve exchange rate stability, which is one of the agenda set by the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele at the beginning of his tenure. Gwadabe said the partnership between both institutions will continue in the New Year to make the naira sovereign in the forex market. He said: “The strategic partnership between the Central Bank and ABCON continued to  make the naira sovereign in the foreign exchange market. The opening market rate N360/361 to dollar on the two-way quote has been stable. This sustained stability made the Bureaux De Change (BDCs) to continue to be the potent monetary policy tool of the CBN exchange rate management.” According to the ABCON boss, the market distortions by forex speculators, rent seekers, currency hoarders and frivolous demand that usually endangered naira stability have been successfully checkmated. He said it was no longer profitable to attack naira in the market. The foreign exchange rates collected across different markets and released, yesterday, by ABCON showed that dollar buying rate in Lagos ended the year at N359 to dollar and selling rate N360.5 to the dollar. The exchange rates for Pound Sterling ended the year at N451/N457 for buying and selling respectively while the Euro was at N404/408. In Port Harcourt, dollar buying/selling rates were N359/361; Pound Sterling, N405/ N408 and Euro N457/N464. In Abuja, buying/selling for dollar were at N360/N361; Pound Sterling, N453/N457 and Euro N405/N410. In Kano, buying/selling rates for dollar were N359.5/N360.5; Pound Sterling N459/N62 and Euro N405/N408 respectively. Gwadabe said the local currency stability has also been achieved in the official market, where the exchange rate closed the year at N307 to the dollar despite huge campaign spendings by political parties. He disclosed that both the CBN and ABCON have continually ensured that  foreign exchange demands at the retail end of the market were met. He said the sustenance of dollar supply to over 4,000 BDC operators across the country through the International Money Transfer Operations (IMTOs) forex window has helped the status of the local currency. He said going into the New Year, the ongoing ABCON automation and configuration of soft token for forex return rendition by over 4,000 BDCs nationwide will enhance transparency and financial integrity of the operators. “This feat will no doubt strengthen the effectiveness of the technical compliance of the anti money laundering and counter terrorism financing laws and help Nigeria’s assessment into the Financial Action Task Force coming up this new year,” he stated.