The 2019 Campaign Council of the Plateau State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has shifted the official flag-off of its gubernatorial campaign of its candidate, Senator Jeremiah T. Useni. The flag-off earlier scheduled for Friday, January 4, 2019 in Mangu local government area will now hold on Tuesday, January 8, 2019. However, the party maintains Mangu as the venue for the ceremony. This was the major decision taken by the State Campaign Council at its emergency session presided over by the state PDP Chairman, Damishi Sango, at the party’s secretariat in Jos. In a statement by the Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee of the PDP campaign, Abraham Yiljap, the party explained that it has received credible information about the likelihood of a security breach since the ruling party in the state, the All Progressive Congress (APC), has also scheduled its flag-off for the same Friday in Jos. Therefore, the statement said the PDP wants to prevent any attack on its supporters and innocent people in Mangu and along the way by supporters travelling to or from the APC rally in Jos. “The PDP wants the people of Plateau to know that it has the highest regards for their safety, peace and stability of all communities. “It will therefore work to ensure that it avoids any provocative plans by the ruling party to further worsen the already ugly security situation in the state, especially in the Northern and Central Zones. “One of PDP’s cardinal objectives is also to empower the people economically. For this, the party does not wish to deprive the people of the economic benefits of the internationally renowned Friday Mangu Market (same day with the earlier flag-off day). “So, it wants the people all over the state and those coming from even outside the country to gain the full advantage of the Mangu Market holding on Fridays without having to sacrifice it or experience excruciating congestion,” the statement read. It noted also that since the APC administration has only succeeded in making people’s lives more unbearable through misgovernance and economic hardship, the PDP don’t want to do anything that would add to the suffering. Meanwhile, the statement pointed out that the party’s leadership had agreed on measures to adopt in reconciling aggrieved members and motivate all party loyalists and friends to continue to support the party. “We have started implementing specific and strategic steps to address all the issues. We appeal to party members to stand very firm and communicate in a way that will build the party. “The chairman has no grudges against anyone. His doors are open always. Let us talk as a family please. The PDP will not fail the people of Plateau. Let us forgive each other and move on as a  family to restore the fortune of Plateau people. There can be no excuse to allow APC return to power in this year’s election. None whatsoever,” the statement added. Gov. Lalong, Sen Useni to flag off campaign tomorrow PDP postpones Kogi, Bayelsa governorship campaign flag-off Plateau LG elections: How the parties are warming up