Amidst concerns over seeming lackluster presidential campaign of the PDP ahead of the February presidential election, a chieftain of the party, Chief Olabode George, says the party will stabilise and reinvigorate itself towards the poll. George, a former deputy national chairman of the party, spoke with Daily Trust following widespread disenchantment among some chieftains and stakeholders of the party over the manner the campaign of Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate, was being conducted. An online report had earlier in the week quoted a PDP governor as warning that Atiku might lose the presidential election to President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC, citing some yet to be addressed internal party rifts. The PDP leader in Lagos believed the concerns were genuine and those making the observations were doing it out of love for the party. He said the PDP, being a national party, would rise above what he called “the innuendoes and pettiness” before the general election. “As an elder of the party, when people see that things are wrong and they are expressing their concerns, we can still go back to the drawing board and examine what they are saying and their observations because there is nowhere that you don’t see problems like this even in APC there is problem,” he said. Reiterating that there was no perfect system anywhere in the world, he said, “I have no qualms about us being able to address those issues, re-establish and stabilize our platform.” The PDP chieftain noted that only those who thought their lives had been positively transformed under APC would vote for the party in the forthcoming elections. “Ask the people, that is the beauty of democracy. Are you better off today than before? People should ask themselves. What of the young people that have graduated without jobs and they have no hope of getting employed anytime soon? “I am happy the president himself admitted that and said Nigerians should be patient with the government, that they would do well in second term. “Let the people decide, let the will of the people be respected. Nobody should rig the election,” he said. George also chided Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, for their comment that Yoruba should vote the APC to regain power in 2023. He said they should both concentrate on removing the chaos in Nigeria’s port, Apapa from where, he noted, it was more expensive to clear a container to Ikeja within Lagos than to ship a container from China to Nigeria. He said they should both sort out the traffic gridlock on Lagos roads before they start talking about the 2023 elections.