Pioneer chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Malam Nuhu Ribadu, has said the opposition against President Muhammadu Buhari will be “roundly defeated.” Ribadu said the February presidential election was a referendum between a past that should forever be forgotten and a new chapter of probity and accountability. He spoke in yesterday in Yola at a ceremony where he handed over his governorship campaign structure, campaign offices and vehicles for the reelection bid of President Buhari. Malam Ribadu aspired for the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State but lost to incumbent Mohammed Jibrilla. Ribadu said he and his supporters would work “assiduously to ensure sound victory for President Buhari in Adamawa State.” He appealed to APC supporters in the state to work towards doubling votes secured by President Buhari in the last election, during the forthcoming February election. “There is a consensus among Nigerians of goodwill. Nobody wants a return of those faces that are synonymous with our failure as a country. We have moved on, we should not allow them to drag us back. “For the past three years, EFCC and others have been struggling to recover wealth stolen from this country within just a few years. We are happy now that such wanton stealing is not happening. We should not allow those who have no problem with stealing our wealth to get back on the wheels,” he said. He said the people of Adamawa State had no reason not to support President Buhari due to a number of achievements of the administration. “This state is a farming state. Our farmers have been supported through the Anchor Borrowers. We now have fertilizer all over. “In terms of infrastructure, Adamawa is witnessing the massive revolution. A number of roads are currently ongoing in the state. We have never had it so good,” he said. Ribadu also gave Buhari credit for the return of peace in the state which, he said, was not the case in 2015. “Many communities in Adamawa State were under Boko Haram occupation. The capital, Yola, was being threatened but today everyone is at peace, all displaced persons have been returned to their towns,” he said. The former director general of Ribadu Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Salihu Bawuro, said Ribadu and his campaign council agreed to hand over vehicles and other resources for the presidential campaign of President Buhari, because of shared values.