The Rector of the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, Capt. Abdulsalami Mohammed, in this interview, speaks on why most Nigerian airlines fail, why they buy used aircraft, his achievements at the college in the last two years and other issues. On January9, 2019, you clocked two years in office. What are your major achievements as Rector of NCAT? We have achieved quite a lot. When I took over, we had a number of ongoing projects and processes. Right now we are in the process of attaining the regional training centre of excellence by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). One of the criteria to qualify for that is you have to develop standard training packages – a minimum of three, in addition to passing the audit to ensure you have the personnel and facilities in the college. We put in a lot of effort to develop the standard training packages. Before I came, we had just one. But now we have developed six standard training packages. We are one of the few regional centres of excellence that have developed many standard training packages. Consequently, ICAO awarded us the regional training centre of excellence in Abuja during the IWAF conference in 2017. One year down the line, we were due for recertification and the assessment was done by ICAO in the middle of 2018 and we have been recertified for another three years. That is the crown of my achievements. What situation did you meet when you assumed office in terms of staff and facilities? I haven’t recruited any more instructors, so it’s the same number of instructors that I met on ground that I’m working with, yet we achieved these awards. What I met on ground was recruitment process to recruit more instructors, technical staff and support staff. We engaged the services of a consultant, PSIN here in Abuja, for that. They have submitted the report to us. Unfortunately, we haven’t been able to conclude the exercise because of lack of funds, so we will have to wait for the 2019 budget for the funds to be appropriated. Once we achieve that, we will conclude the recruitment process. In terms of structures, we have some ongoing projects – building additional offices, classrooms and hostels. Some have been completed and some are ongoing. On the ICAO Centre of Excellence, what benefits would that bring to Nigeria? When you are recognised as a regional training centre of excellence by ICAO, doors are opened for training opportunities. You can now develop training packages in all the ICAO annexes. If you are not a regional training centre of excellence, you have limits to the number of training packages you can do. In addition, you can also develop an International Training Package (ITP), and this can be used by any Training Plus in the world. You can also import any standard training package developed by any member state and conduct that training in Nigeria. This saves the cost of sending large number of people abroad to train in those packages. It also gives the college a new status. This will open doors for the college. We also want to extend these training packages to our neighbouring countries as was the case previously. I have been able to convince them that it is safe to come to Zaria despite the insurgency in some parts of the North. As we speak, I’m supposed to meet with the head of civil aviation authorities in the sub-region in Dakar later this month to tell them about the training opportunities at NCAT. Our marketing is bearing fruit. Already we have students coming in from Cameroun and Sierra Leone to start courses at NCAT. Talking about the huge cost of training abroad, the B737 simulator has been under procurement for more than three years. What’s the status now? If you may recall, the initial decision was to cite the simulator in Lagos. When this government came into power, the decision was taken to relocate it to Zaria. The initial contract didn’t include the building that will house the simulator. It was just for the supply and installation of the simulator. We had to do a procurement process for the building that will contain the simulator. We had to go up to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval, which we got sometime in June, 2018. We awarded the contract for the construction of the building in July, 2018. So that is work in progress. We hope to complete the building this year. Without these simulators, we must be losing a fortune to training abroad. Can you aggregate the annual losses? It is difficult for me to give you a figure because it involves the airlines. As you know, for the commercial airlines, it is regulatory requirements for the pilots to go for recurrent training every six months. This training is done in simulators. In simulators, we practice emergencies that we can’t practice live on the aircraft. Like engine and hydraulic failures. The pilots are to be familiar with these so that when they happen in real life, they can react appropriately. Up till now, we don’t have such a simulator and all the airlines have been sending their pilots to train abroad at such a great cost. The cost varies based on the location and type of simulator. Sometimes the demand for the simulators are high that you have to travel to far places to access them. Right now, in the whole of West Africa, there is no single flight simulator. In East Africa, Ethiopian Airlines has many of those, Kenya Airways also has. South African Airways, Egypt Air and Air Maroc all have. When the national carrier eventually takes off, I believe it will have. It is coming with its own set of simulators for the type of aircraft that they intend to operate. These simulators are aircraft-specific. The usual practice in the aviation industry is that once you buy a certain number of aircraft, you buy a simulator to cut the cost of having to use a training provider. Are you concerned that you are heading a school and training people that would end up without jobs as many airlines are failing and underperforming, leaving several trained pilots, engineers jobless after training at huge costs? I am concerned in the sense that there are quite a number of them currently unemployed. But there are jobs for pilots. Again, according to ICAO and IATA, there is going to be severe manpower shortage in the aviation industry worldwide because a lot of airlines are coming up, they are ordering aircraft and they need additional personnel. You also have a lot of ageing personnel that need to be replaced. Some countries are already experiencing that. In Nigeria, we have a peculiar problem. We have a number of private airlines that are struggling to survive, but we also have cases of shortage of flights. Some weeks ago, we had severe shortage of flights between Lagos and Abuja. Some people had to go through Kano to go to Lagos just because one airlines didn’t operate then. That tells you there is demand. But some of our private airlines are not doing it right. Back to the concern on shortage of aviation manpower in future, ICAO came up with a programme called Next Generation of Aviation Professionals (NGAP). NCAT has signed up to it. We go around schools and colleges and sensitise students on carriers in aviation. It’s a worldwide thing based on the impending shortage of aviation professionals. The N7m we charge to train pilots is the cheapest you can train in any part of the world. I was going through old newspapers and I saw an NCAT advert in 1981 for pilot training, the cost then was $25,000. 35 years down the line, we are charging less than $25,000 for pilot training. Yet the cost of everything has gone up. The fuel that we are using costs about N1,000 per litre. Nigerian airlines use a lot of leased aircraft, can’t they buy new planes? On leased aircraft, it’s a common practice in the industry. For instance, a typical B737 will cost you between $80m to $100m. To a Nigerian, that is a lot of money. Some of the bigger ones cost as much as $250m. Some years back, the airlines realised they were tying down cost unnecessary buying new aircraft. So the airlines started leasing. The biggest aircraft owners around the world are leasing companies. So you can even place orders with them for new aircraft and they are manufactured in your colours and according to your specification, but they belong to the leasing companies. A lot of these aircraft you see on the fleet of BA, Virgin Atlantic, Lufthansa colours are on lease. Unfortunately, Nigerian airlines don’t have access to such leases over the years because we defaulted in paying those leases in the past; which is why Nigerian operators don’t have a choice but to buy used aircraft. And the Nigerian banks don’t have the capacity to lease such aircraft, and there interest rates are outrageous. Yet this is an industry where the average profit margin is four per cent. So how can you make money if you borrow at over 20 per cent interest? This also explains why the government also decided to set up the Aviation Leasing Company (ALC). If ALC is set up, Nigerian airlines will also lease modern aircraft at reasonable rates and be able to compete with foreign operators. The newer the aircraft the more fuel-efficient it is. If you can save one per cent of that on fuel, it’s a lot of money. Don’t you generate revenue internally to support the college? We do, but it is not enough because of the government subsidy on school fees. Because of the subsidy, we don’t recover the cost of training pilots. The N7.5m we charge to train a pilot is the lowest in the world and it doesn’t cover the cost of training a pilot. What we charge includes feeding and accommodation. Would you want the subsidy taken off? We are asking the government to review it, maybe not taken off entirely, but at least if we can recover our cost. We can then get our revenue from some of the courses that involve foreign training. Even on flight training, foreigners don’t enjoy subsidy. They pay about N20m because of the exchange rate. I think Ethiopian Airlines is about $100,000. Are you optimistic that a national carrier will impact positively on Nigeria’s aviation industry? I wasn’t a staff of Nigerian Airways, but I knew what happened to the airline. I also know what happened to most of the private operators that failed. I can count up to 20. Three years ago, the government appointed me to chair the committee on the establishment of the national carrier. One of the terms of reference was also to investigate what led to the failure of Nigerian Airways. We engaged a lot of former staff of the airline, including former managing directors. We consulted widely. Everyone old enough is familiar with the problems of Nigerian Airways. Yes, people were sending girlfriends to get free tickets and stuffs like that. Unfortunately, even the private airlines copied some of these things. The chairman of an airline will walk to the counter where tickets are sold, pack the day’s sales into a bag and go. For private airlines, there was lack of corporate governance. The biggest problem of Nigerian Airways was government interference. So we recommended zero government interference for any new national carrier. If you look at the successful airlines like Emirates, experts and foreigners do the job, while government is relegated to the boardroom. We recommend Public Private Partnership (PPP). The airline has to also invest a lot in training and retraining because aviation is all about training. You have to train. Why we give dialogue with host communities priority – NCAT Rector Why young pilots find it difficult to get jobs – NCAT rector Financial scandals, persecution rock Aviation College Zaria    ‘Allegations unfounded’