The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Kwara state, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has described the reported ban on political rallies and processions on the streets by the state government, as undemocratic. Kwara state governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, had on Wednesday banned political street rallies and processions in the state following repeated political violence. Governor Ahmed said “as an additional security measure, political street rallies and processions are hereby banned across the state. Only political rallies in designated areas and with prior notification to the state police command will be allowed henceforth.” The governor’s action was borne out of the weekend violent attacks on political rallies organized by major political parties in the state. Abdulrazaq told journalists in Ilorin while visiting the victims of last Sunday’s attack. The APC governorship candidate added that the governor’s pronouncement is an attempt to frustrate the party’s campaigns in the state. “They have made all efforts to frustrate our campaigns. They started by attacking our rallies. You know that they have had so many rallies and there has not been violence in any of their rallies. But the moment we step out to campaign, they attack us. “We mount our bill boards, they use the Kwara state Signage and Advertising Agency (KWASAA) to bring them down, yet they have not succeeded in silencing us. It means our message is resonating. It is not about APC candidates any more. It is a movement in Kwara now. “Now they don’t want us to get there but we will get there by the grace of God and stop all this nonsense going on in the state. The governor’s statement is a case of someone hiding behind a finger. In a democracy, how can you ban a rally? “We are victims of their violence here. It must stop. I met with the police commissioner and he assured me that the police are up to the task of getting to the bottom of the violence. We must stop this. “We have told the victims and our supporters not to retaliate. Our opponents don’t have anything to lose. They want to discourage our supporters from going out to vote. They want to discourage them from going out to campaign. “No, we are going to campaign vigorously and our supporters will come out to vote enmass on the days of elections. The President is coming here next week and they cannot stop him from campaigning. They cannot also stop us from campaigning,” Abdulrazaq said. On the entourage of the governorship candidate were the Kwara central senatorial candidate of the APC, Dr Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe and other party stalwarts. Campaign: Buhari departs for Lokoja APC Rally Kwara APC gov candidate escapes assassination PDP, APC trade blame over violence in Ilorin