The Emir of Lafia in Nasarawa state, Alhaji (Dr.) Isa Mustapha Agwai I has died at the age of 83. The Madaki of Lafia, Alhaji Isyaka Dauda, confirmed the death on Thursday evening. The late Dr. Isa Mustapha Agwai I was born on February 15, 1935 at Kofar Kaura in Lafia town. He was selected by the Lafia emirate’s kingmakers on May 15, 1974 and was presented the staff of office by the then governor of Benue/Plateau state, Joseph D. Gomwalk, on October 26, 1974 at the Lafia stadium, now known as the Parade Ground. He was the 16th Emir of Lafia, and celebrated his 44th coronation anniversary last year. Until his demise at age 83, Dr. Isa Mustapha Agwai I was the chairman of the Nasarawa State Council of Emirs and Chiefs, having spent 44 years on the throne. He was also the state chairman of Jama’tul Nasril Islam (JNI) and Chairman of Nasarawa State Inter Religious Council. Also, he was the National Vice Chairman of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs in Nigeria, (NSCIA) and the national Vice Chairman of Jama’atu Nastril Islam (JNI). The late monarch also held several positions including Chairman, Governing Council of Akwanga Teachers College; Chancellor, A.T.B.U Bauchi; Chancellor, Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) and until his demise, the Chancellor, Federal University, Otuoke in Bayelsa state. Meanwhile, the Andoma of Doma, Alhaji Ahmadu Aliyu Onawo and the Madaki of Lafia, Alhaji Isyaku Dauda, were leading other royal figures to receive many people who trooped to the palace on condolence visits. In his condolence message, the Speaker of Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, pray for the repose of the soul of the royal father and urged the people of Nasarawa  state and Nigeria to pray for the fallen hero. According to the Madaki of Lafia, the remains of the late Emir would be buried tomorrow.  Details later… Monarch tasks leaders on human capital development Lafia emir’s deputy dies Emir of Lafia calls for education of INEC staff