Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has called on electricity customers to disregard rumours that it was deliberately depriving them adequate power supply for some political reasons. A statement signed by the company’s spokesman, Mohammed Kandi, indicated that the power shortage being experienced in some parts of Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states was due to some transmission constraints. “The power supply shortage is caused by failure of our second 150MVA transformer at Kumbotso substation in Kano. The transformer is undergoing repairs. The problem has no link whatsoever with the alleged attempt to sabotage the president Muhammadu Buhari APC-led government.” “In addition to the faulty two out of four 150MVA transformers at Kumbotso transmission substation is a dip in power generation occasioned by two major system collapses that were recorded earlier in January, 2019,” the statement indicated. It also quoted KEDCO’s Head of System Operation and Dispatch, Engr. Shuaibu Adeiza, as saying “Normally, when the Grid recovers from disturbance like system collapse, places far north of the country like Kano and other states in the region become subservient to operation. “Even when are restored back to the Grid, there will be a lot of restrictions in terms of load allocation for fear of another collapse,” he said. He said the firm had been mandated by law to generate and distribute electricity fairly and equitably in its franchise area of Kano, Jigawa and Katsina states, adding that, “our company has never reneged on that agreement or even come under any knock by the regulator in the last five years of its operation as a private utility.” The statement added that the company does not operate in vacuum but within the ambit of constituted authorities, stated that, if functions in strict compliance with the guidelines and the regulatory frameworks prescribed by the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC), which supervises the activities all the DISCOs in the country. Kandi assured that the normal power supply would be restored as soon as the faulty transformerd were repaired, calling on members of the general public to dispel the rumour. TCN restores electricity days after fire gutted Kano transformer TCN restores electricity after Kano transformer fire TCN sustains 30mw power supply in Jos, others