The wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, on Saturday said the only option for the betterment of Nigeria is for Nigerians to vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming elections. Mrs. Buhari, who was represented at the APC Southwest Women and Youth Zonal Rally in Ibadan by the wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, said there is need for Nigerians to re-elect Buhari because the APC-led administration is a merciful government. She urged Nigerians to vote for President Buhari in the elections to enable him consolidates on all the good things he has done in his first term. “The wife of the president told me to tell you that you should all go out to vote for Buhari, vote for APC and ensure you wait until your vote is counted, and also make sure you write down the result,” she said. Mrs. Osinbajo added that continuity is important, saying that is why Buhari must be re-elected. “Don’t allow anybody to deceive you, vote for Buhari, vote for continuity so that all of us can benefit immensely from this government,” she added. In her remarks, the APC national woman leader, Ahjiah Salamatu Bawa said that Nigerians should mobilise their families to vote for Buhari in the election. Also speaking at the event, the APC southwest woman leader, Chief Mrs. Kemi Nelson, said Nigerians should go from street to streets to canvas vote for President Buhari. Earlier in her remark, the wife of Oyo State governor, Mrs. Florence Abiola Ajimobi, said Nigerians deserve good governance to the next level. Dignitaries at the event include the minister of information, Culture and Tourism, Lai Mohammed, Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state, Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state, Chief Pius Akinyelure, representative of the Lagos State governor, Otunba Femi Pedro. Others are wives of all the southwest governors, wife of Kebbi State governor, wife of Imo state governor, APC national women leader, Hajia Salamatu Bawa, APC southwest zonal women leader, Chief Kemi Nelson, N-Power beneficiaries and NURTW members. Aisha Buhari to women, youths: Protect your votes 2019: Aisha Buhari urges women to guard their votes Uche Nwosu is APC in spirit and AA in dressing, says Okorocha