Twelve people, including a pregnant woman identified as Mrs Funmilayo, were reportedly killed in a road crash Monday night near Bola Ige International Market along the new Ife-Ibadan Road, Gbagi, Ibadan, Oyo State Capital. Eyewitnesses said the accident, which occurred at exactly 11.45pm, involved those who were going to churches for the ‘crossover night’ at Iyana-Agbala and Egbeda area of the city. They said the incident happened when a trailer, coming from the Iwo Road axis, rammed into several commercial vehicles, including a bus belonging to one ‘Orobo Baba Weather’ which had loaded passengers at the spot as well as a Toyota Camry and a Nissan Micra car. They said they could not ascertain whether the trailer had a brake failure. The conductor of the bus, Waris Olatunde, said he narrowly escaped death. “It was only God that saved me. Usually, I used to collect money for my bus’ driver from the passengers before he leaves the park, but in this case, he said since it was late already,  I should take N200 and leave. He told me that he would collect the money himself on the road. The man just closed the side door of the vehicle and before he entered from the driver’s side,  the trailer had crossed to this side and killed everyone in the vehicle. Even a Camry and a micra car were also crushed,” he said. A neighbour of a pregnant woman, Mrs. Iseoluwa Opeyemi, who was weeping uncontrollably, told our correspondent that the woman popularly called Funmi-iya-Funmilayo was on her way to her mother-in-law’s house at Iyana Agbala when the incident happened. She narrated: “Mama Funmi was a very hardworking woman.  They just moved to their new house last Saturday and she died last night. She came to our house and told us she was going to her mother- in-law’s house not knowing that she was going to die. Her only surviving son in the crash is now at hospital. I was there this morning and the boy is recuperating though his head was partially damaged. I pray the little boy survives this.” The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Mr Adekunle Ajisebutu,  confirmed the incident. He, however put the casualty figure at 11. But a comprehensive report obtained from the Office of the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), Cecilia Alao, indicated that 12 people died. The victims’ corpses were said to have been deposited at the morgue of the  Oyo State Specialist Hospital, Adeoyo, Ibadan. The report also indicated that 10 injured victims were conveyed to Toun Specialist Hospital, Iwo Road area for medical attention.