The Nigeria Air force, NAF, on Saturday night, celebrated its fallen heroes and recognized personnel selected for acts of gallantry and excellence during counter insurgency operations in north eastern part of the country. Awards were presented to the selected recipients at The Chief of the Air Staff annual award night dinner, held at the NAF conference center, Abuja. The awards were given in categories that included; the senior officers; junior officers; senior non-commissioned officers’ (SNCOs); non-commissioned officers’ (NCOs); senior civilian staff category and junior civilian staff category. Other categories are; most collaborating civilian institution; posthumous gallantry awards; recognition of national defence college (NDC) course 26 and course 40 armed forces command and staff college awards. Those who received posthumous awards for gallantry were; Late Flight Lieutenant Pereowei Jacob; Late Flight Lieutenant Kaltho Kilyofas; Late Sergeant Auwal Ibrahim; Late Lance Corporal Adamu Nura and Late Aircraftsman Meshack Ishmael. The five personnel died in the ill-fated MI-35 Helicopter which crashed in Damasak, Borno state on 2nd January 2019. Wing Commander Mohammed Umar, Squadron Leader Sunkanmi Akinbohun, Squadron Leader Ubong Sunday and late Squadron Leader Mohammed Bello Baba-Ari received awards in the senior officer’s category. Flight Lieutenant Ibrahim Gambomi Goni, Flying Officer Jeremiah Dogonzo won in the junior officer’s category, Warrant Officer Shuaibu Yusuf, Sergeant Samanja Ishaya and Sergeant Alabi David won as the senior non-commissioned officers. Corporal Adeleke Abiodun and Lance Corporal Shinku Godwin won as non- commissioned officers, the senior staff category was won by Goke Akande while Emmanuel Ngene won the junior civilian staff category. Also, the University of Maiduguri won as the most collaborating civilian institution category. In his remarks, the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar said, “the operational successes achieved in the outgone year would not have been possible without the determination, commitment and sacrifices made by our officers and men.” “This event is aimed at recognizing and honouring some NAF personnel who have distinguished themselves in the course of their duty,” he added. Insurgency:  Five Air Force personnel died in Borno helicopter crash 5 killed in Airforce chopper crash in Borno NAF officer breaks 20 yr records at Armed Forces Command Staff College