Air Peace yesterday commenced flight services at the Murtala Muhammed Airport 2, Lagos, saying the extension of its operations to the terminal would afford it the right atmosphere to provide exceptional flight experience. The carrier, which operates its domestic flights from its hub at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, had promised to move its Lagos-Kaduna, Lagos-Asaba, Lagos-Akure, Lagos-Port Harcourt NAF Base and other flights under its subsidiary, Air Peace Hopper to MMA2. For a start, the airline moved four flights including Kaduna, Asaba, Akure and Port Harcourt NAF base to MMA2. The airline’s Embraer 145 jet with registration number 5N-BUV took off from the MMA2 enroute to Kaduna Airport at about 7.20 a.m. shortly after a brief ceremony. Members of staff, managers of the facility, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) and passengers were in attendance. Air Peace Corporate Communications Manager, Mr. Chris Iwarah said the airline described MMA2 as one of the best terminals in the country. He confirmed that Air Peace would eventually move all flights under its subsidiary, Air Peace Hopper to the facility as part of its strategy to position itself for better service to its customers and deepen its no-city-left-behind project. Group Executive Director of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited, operator of MMA2, Mr. Rodger Whittle disclosed that the entry of Air Peace brings the destinations of MMA2 to 24. He assured of excellent passenger facilitation and experience at the facility. “This terminal will really offer a wonderful set of services to Air Peace customers. It adds tremendous value to the Air Peace proposition and it adds great value to the travelling experience of the customers”. Also speaking, Head of Corporate Communications, MMA2, Mrs. Eniola Ade-Solanke said the terminal had the capacity even for regional operations and was attracting major airlines through the provision of excellent passenger experience. 