The Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo Campaign Organisation, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi has said that the 2019 elections in Kwara and by extension, Nigeria are between the rich and the poor. He added that the rich and thieves have ganged-up against the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government in the country. Amaechi said this in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital at the inauguration of APC ward canvassers ahead of 2019 general elections in the state. “We are gathered here today to peacefully take over power from the rich and hand over to the poor. That is what APC stands for. We join the poor to say we must take power from the rich. We join the poor to say ‘enough is enough.’ “The elite and the thieves have ganged-up against APC. But they don’t have the power because they don’t have the number. The number is with the poor and the poor must rise to vote on that day. “This election is between the rich and the poor. Now the poor have realized that they are tired. If at the end of former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government, we had $58 billion, where is the money now? How much did state governments collect? How much did the Federal Government collect? What did they do with the money? “When I was a student at the University of Port Harcourt I predicted that one day the poor will rise. It will get to a point when the poor will begin to eat big men. What you are seeing in Kwara is a modern Tunisia. It was a poor man that started the Arab Spring in Tunisia. Today Kwara is leading the revolution to change Nigeria. Power must return to the poor. One problem we all have is that even we the poor are being deceived by them. “Big men are in all the parties o! The difference between other parties and ours is that the big men in our party are all progressives. Other parties don’t care, they want to even collect what the poor is eating from them,” he said. Earlier, Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed said the gathering was a demonstration of the people’s resolve to rescue the state from “those who have held it by the jugular, those who have pauperized our people, the pathologically-dishonest ones who govern by deceit.” The politics that cost Saraki Kwara by-election No president has touched the lives of the poor than Buhari – Keyamo Amaechi’s long, snaky path to APC