Elizebeth Robertson, a renowned expert in Counter-Insurgency and Conflict Resolution based in Geneva has said that Boko Haram remain a threat because the group continues to have access to a limitless pool of uneducated, unemployed, impoverished and easy to radicalize youths. Robertson  lamented that in spite of the efforts made by the Nigerian government and a multi-national military operation, Boko Haram has remained a major security concern. According to Robertson in an electronic statement,  some states governors have failed to empower their youths as the governments of some other northern states have been doing like giving meaningful work tools. She wrote, “There is a perplexing situation around Jamā’at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wa’l-Jihād better known as Boko Haram or other terrorist groups operating in the Lake Chad Basin comprising north-east Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon. In spite of the efforts made by the Nigerian government and a multinational military operation, Boko Haram has remained a security concern that has in recent weeks worsened as terrorists launch daring attacks that should not be possible given the scale of decimation that the Nigerian military had unleashed on the group. “It is glaring that certain key factors make it possible for Boko Haram to remain a threat. The group continues to have access to a limitless pool of uneducated, unemployed, impoverished and easy to radicalize youths. The clerics in the area have not been brought on board to tailor preaching that insulate youths against being easily recruited, brainwashed and radicalized. The Borno state government, which is the epicentre of the insurgency, and Yobe state have failed to invest in social intervention programmes that will lessen the allure of the empty promises Boko Haram uses to lure youths into its ranks. “The end of these terror groups does not appear in sight as the political class in the region has become fixated on only military solutions, an attitude that is the driver for the resurgence of the terrorists even when they have been decimated. There can be no room left for vacuum whenever the military pushes Boko Haram out of an area. The state governments should have been implementing programmes that ensure Boko Haram has no pool of youths to recruit from while also making gainful engagement more rewarding than joining the terrorists”.  The decline in Global Terrorism Index Don’t negotiate with B/Haram – Chad leader Counter-Terrorism: A Call on Borno Elite