Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) says it has established six additional schools in some villages in the council area. Mrs Dinatu Tukura, Head of Department, Education and Social Development, AMAC, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Abuja. She said the move became necessary in order to increase enrolment by bringing schools closer to the pupils in villages that hitherto had no access to school. Tukura said the council has increased the number of schools by establishing additional schools in Kwuyami, Azhata, Iddo Maji, Wasa, Gui, Gidan Hakimi and Makani Ma villages in the FCT. She said the villages had no access to school but now have classroom blocks with children and teachers. She said in some particular schools, where more than half of parents could not provide their children with school uniforms and writing materials, the council had intervened. She applauded AMAC Chairman Alhaji Abdullahi Candido for providing school uniforms and writing materials in several schools within the council area. According to her, the council made effort to provide pupils with exercise books and to help their parents so that they can go to school. “In 2018, we distributed chairs, tables and writing materials to some schools. We went round several schools in the council area to monitor their activities and see the welfare of the children and staff,’’ Tukura said. She said the council took the welfare of teachers as priority, adding that in 2018, teachers were paid their salaries and allowances as and when due. “The chairman expressed belief that education is the most important thing to him by considering the welfare of children, teachers and staff of the council. “Our supervision of schools has exposed us to a lot of things; we saw schools, especially in our villages, that were not fenced,’’ Tukura said. (NAN)  AMAC community solicits for health care centre Japan gives N30m grant for Abuja bridge, classrooms, toilets AMAC village head laments truancy rate among school pupils