Garba Yunusa has a laundry shop in Nyanya, Nasarawa State. To help boost his business, he submitted an application for a loan to a bank and was assured of getting up to N1 million loan at single digit in less than a week. “However, three days after, I was called to present cheques from three guarantors and evidence of ownership of landed property worth at N2 million. “It became quite discouraging as I don’t have such means, so I gave up. I have tried four of such financial establishments but it has remained difficult either because of the collateral required or the interest is too high at double digit rate,” he explained. Abdullahi Usman, a farmer in Kuje, FCT Abuja, has also been finding it difficult to access the N220 CBN Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) intervention fund. Experts say only one third of small business owners are able to obtain all the credit that their businesses need. This is not surprising. When it comes to accessing capital, experts say size definitely matters; even among small businesses, the smaller the company, the lower the odds that it accesses a loan. Mr Innocent Chukwuemeka, an economist, said fewer small businesses have access to credit than larger companies because lending to the former is riskier and more expensive than extending credit to larger companies. “Small businesses fail at higher rates than big businesses and changes in the business cycle have a larger impact on their profits. Because lenders cannot always charge interest rates that are commensurate with a borrower’s default risk, the most risky small business borrowers are often unable to get credit.” “Additionally, evaluating small business loan applications is often expensive. Little publicly available information on the financial condition of small companies exists, and small businesses’ financial statements are not always very detailed,” Chukwuemeka explained. In 2013, the CBN established the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF) of N220 billion. Also, a N200 billion Small and Medium Credit Guarantee Scheme (SMECGS) was established by the Federal Government. In spite of the huge intervention funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and development institutions aimed at helping Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) to grow, a lot of the SMEs can’t access the funds. Mr. Isaac Okorafor, Director, Corporate Communications, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said many SMEs are unable to access CBN intervention funds because of lack of business integrity and proper business plan. He spoke to our correspondent in reaction to allegations by some SMEs operators that the conditions placed by the CBN to access the N220 billion SMEs intervention fund were too stringent. According to him the facility, which is a single digit interest rate, must be secured lest the loans become bad. He however added that some SMEs were meeting the conditions and accessing the loans. Mr. Okorafor also noted that the SMEs have the choice of accessing the facilities through cooperative societies if they can’t meet the conditions individually, adding that cooperatives present an easier alternative. The Executive Director, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Mr. Waheed Olagunju, while addressing concerns on difficulties some SMEs face in accessing the funds, said there are specific conditions that must be met before getting the funds. He said the requirements are simple: “you should have collateral and in the case of existing SMEs you must have a solid track record of success for at least five years,” He said the bank was always trying to re-strategise to ease the process of accessing the loans with the Bank of Industry. He cited an example with the NYSC entrepreneurship fund in which the collateral required was only the NYSC discharge certificate which will be withheld until the loan is repaid. At another forum, Olagunju said “If MSMEs are not registered with the CAC, they cannot talk of access to finance. You must be registered before you will talk about access to finance.” Mr Monday Ewan, Director, Policy Advocacy and Coordination Department of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), says the reason MSMEs are finding it difficult to access the funds issued by CBN is because the commercial banks that issue the funds request for collaterals which most small businesses don’t have. “In the survey we did with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2013, out of the 37 million Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, about 36.6 million are micro enterprises – akara sellers, mechanics and so on – that do not have collateral. So if you are telling them to bring any collateral for any loan, you are simply telling them that there is no money for them,” Ewan said. He continued: “They should remove those conditions so that small businesses can have access to the funds. For us at SMEDAN, we are saying for you to develop these small businesses, you give it as development finance. If you spend the money, it’s likely; you win some and lose some,” Ewan further explained. Funds available to SMEs in Nigeria Solution for funding challenges faced by women entrepreneurs Sources of funds for SMEs in Nigeria