Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo state has said he has no problem with the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) but for (Oshiomhole) imposing a known member of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as APC governorship candidate in the state. The governor also denied reports that he has been suspended by the party. Okorocha said in Owerri that contrary to what has been read in some sections of the media, the Imo State Chapter of the APC never at any time suspended and had never contemplated doing that and won’t have any reason to think about that. Okorocha who described himself as the leader of APC in the South-East, said that there is also no faction in Imo APC. He said, “There is only one APC in the state with Hon. Daniel Nwafor as the Chairman and Owelle Rochas Okorocha as the leader. Any other group claiming to be a faction of Imo APC must obviously be a gang of 419ers or league of fraudsters who are experts in issuance of dud cheques and collecting billions for jobs not done. ‘The only contentious issue in Imo APC is that the National Chairman of the Party, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole imposed a known PDP member and a known character in the state on the party as its governorship candidate, and by so doing, pushing the party and its members to a very tight corner especially when it comes to the issue of marketing a candidate. He added, “If Mr. Oshiomhole didn’t want the preferred candidate of members of the party in the state, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, for any reason, and if he actually meant well for Imo APC, he would have taken one of the guber aspirants that formed the coalition who are known members of the party, and who is also from Owerri zone since that was the reason some of them in the coalition claimed that made them to leave the government. “But the APC national chairman preferred a PDP man and also from Orlu zone. And he imposed the candidate on the party and at a time the man was facing charges on corruption. That is the problem with Imo APC and its guber candidate,” he said. APC faction suspends Governor Okorocha for anti-party activities Imo guber: Nwosu formally defects to Action Alliance, expresses confidence of victory Okorocha urges Buhari to call Oshiomhole to order