A Federal High Court sitting in Maiduguri yesterday adjourned its ruling on the motions and application filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial aspirant in last party primary elections, Alhaji Idris Mamman Gutabawa till January 30, 2019. Mamman had instituted a suit with file number: FHC/MG/CS/55/2018 before the court and prayed for the disqualification of Prof. Babagana Zulum, who emerged the party’s gubernatorial candidate, alleging that many of the delegates were unlawful as those legally qualified were chased away. The lead counsel to the plaintiff, Ibrahim Bawa SAN, had argued that pre- election matter is election matter and prayed the court to grant his application. Responding, the lead counsel to defendant, Yusuf Ali SAN opposed the plaintiff’s application and filed a motion of extension of time in a counter-affidavit. Also, the 1st and 2nd defendants filed a counter-affidavit to the motion to amend the originating summon. However, the motion and counter-motion were taken by the court. In his ruling, Justice Jude Dagat adjourned the matter to 30th of January, 2019 for ruling of motion and application. Speaking to journalists after the court sitting, Bawa, the lead counsel to the plaintiff, said it is within their right to seek for amendment under the constitution. “You see, by the rule of the court, the party is entitled to amendment in the case to bring proper to the court, that’s what we had  just decided to do; we exercised our right to amend. The decision to oppose is natural and the court has the right; whether we are correct or not, we will wait for the decision of court at next sitting date,” Bawa said Also reacting, the lead counsel to the defendants, Yusuf Ali SAN, said: “It is coming too late, the constitution gives a maximum of 14 days after primary elections was held. If you are dissatisfied and the primary took place last year; so, if you are now bringing something new now, it is unconstitutional and we are defending the constitution.” Borno gov’ship: Durkwa sues APC, INEC, Zulum Certificate: Buhari rejects mode of service of court processes Abraham seeks to stop swearing-in of Akeredolu as Ondo governor