President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said elections need not be a do- or- die affair and that politicians should not approach them with mortal fear. The president who’s seeking re-election in the February 16 presidential and National Assembly elections, made the declaration in his New Year message to Nigerians. He also reiterated his pledge for free, fair and credible polls. He said “Elections need not be a do-or-die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have. “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a losing battle. The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do,” he said. He said Nigerians desired peace, security, prosperity, inclusiveness and infrastructural development. “That is the journey we have embarked on since we came onboard in 2015, and we are not distracted as we move on. We are resolved to build a country in which the resources are utilized for the benefit of the largest number, and not appropriated by a privileged few in their never-ending quest to satisfy their greed. We are on this mission together, and I assure you of a firm commitment to the ideals of a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country,” he said. Buhari who said the country has had its security, economic, political, and social challenges maintained they are resolved to combat and overcome them all. “I appreciate your support and collaboration in previous years, and look forward to same in 2019, and beyond, as I hope you will renew the mandate you overwhelmingly gave us in 2015, for another term. “We are motivated by nothing other than service to the motherland, and service without selfishness or personal interest.  I can assure you all that we are making steady and sustainable progress in all areas of national life. Those who are unbiased can see and appreciate the progress the country has made since 2015. “A New Year provides an opportunity for renewal of commitment, and I invite you to rededicate ourselves to the vision of a Nigeria that works for all. We are moving from potentials to actualization, and it’s a task to be accomplished by us all; man, woman, young, old, military, civilian, all Nigerians. Please come along, as we journey to the land of our dreams. Happy 2019,” he said.