Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force at the weekend arrested about 23 suspected hoodlums at the Shitta area of the metropolis and recovered from them many bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and other substances believed to be hard drugs. The operatives also arrested eight suspected members of a notorious group of cultists known as Awawa boys who regularly r iiob and rape in the Agege, Capitol and Isale-Oja areas of the Lagos metropolis. The Chairman of the Task Force, Olayinka Egbeyemi, who disclosed the arrest, also said that operatives of the agency were set to clamp down on all illegal traders on railway tracks across the state. Egbeyemi said that the agency had noticed with dismay heavy convergence of illegal traders selling and buying goods on and around railway tracks, insisting that such act was not only suicidal but was an eyesore. He said, “This unusual and very risky trading practice has led to the death of many people, especially those who were not quick enough to depart the track for an oncoming train.” The Chairman  maintained that in accordance with the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Law, it was unlawful for anyone to hawk or buy/sell goods along railway tracks, and on all road setbacks and walkways across the state, adding that the primary responsibility of any responsible and responsive government was to protect lives and property in the people. He, however, warned officials of local governments and market women to desist from collecting fees from hawkers in Oshodi, Mushin, Ikeja-Along, Yaba, Oyingbo and Agege as anyone caught would be severely dealt with in accordance with the law. Egbeyemi regretted that most parents had abdicated their responsibility towards their children as youths now deeply engage in gangsterism. He argued that most of the violent crimes committed these days were perpetrated by teenagers who lacked parental care. While maintaining that the agency would continue to raid all other areas known to be inhabited by undesirable elements, he confirmed that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgar Imohimi, had directed that all those arrested be charged to court.  Lagos task force arrests 74, pulls down 120 illegal structures Lagos govt to clampdown on traders on rail lines I earn over N50,000 daily from drug sale – Suspect