Niger State has the potential to be economically independent from Federal Government due to the abundance of mineral resources in the state. The State Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Engr. Ibrahim Muhammad Panti, who disclosed this in an interactive session with journalists in Minna, said  that the amount of mineral deposit the state was endowed with has put it in a strategic position in the drive for economic growth and development. He observed that with the position of mineral as well as oil and gas in the world, the sectors have the capacity to catapult the state, within a short period, from over dependence on the federal government, to economic prosperity. He said to properly harness these potentials, the ministry was collaborating with stakeholders in the mining subsector to enhance its development. He noted that the ministry has put in place mechanism to acquire bankable data in the oil and gas sector as well as other minerals. The Commissioner also disclosed that the government had acquired some mineral tittles for Zuma Mineral Development Company, a company which was created to carry out mining activities on behalf of the state, to enable it participate actively in the exploration and exploitation of solid minerals in the state. He added that the ministry attended the Invest in Africa Mining Indaba to learn, network, attract, and educate investors about the state solid mineral endowment, and also attended the National Council on Mining and Mineral Resources Development. The ministry according to the Commissioner attended and participated actively in the 1st Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) and the 2nd International Conference on Prevention of Lead Poisoning associated with Artisanal Gold Mining. He further disclosed that government has received the report on environmental baseline studies, Geographical Information System analysis (GIS) and the drilled shallow wells in Makera, Bokani, Kontagora, Enagi and Gulu adding that the results confirmed the presence of hydrocarbon at the Bida Basin. The Commissioner also disclosed that government was  in talks with investors that will conduct seismic data analysis to prove the viability of hydrocarbon in commercial quantity in Bida Basin. He said the ministry was also discussing with investors who indicated interest to partner with Zuma Mineral Development Company in the area of exploration and exploitation of solid minerals. Mining of Diamond, others in Adamawa to commence in December–Commissioner North must explore its oil resources – DahiruYabo page 23 BUSINESS