The Nigerian Army on Monday flagged off its Exercise Python Dance III which it said would tackle crimes in Lagos and Ogun states before, during and after the forthcoming general elections. Speaking at the event in Lagos, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai said the exercise would be conducted within Lagos and Ogun states from January till March. According to him, the army and other security agencies were bent on stamping out bandits, rustlers, terrorists, kidnappers, robbers and militants in the country. He said the exercise would among other things, address the issue of fake news and unpatriotic elements impeding military operations and demoralising forces at the expense of national security, adding that it had no political undertone. “This is another historic and important event geared towards reassuring law abiding citizens and Nigerians in general of the resolve of the NA to provide adequate security and safety even as the nation approaches the 2019 General Elections. “This significant event is also a reassurance of the resolve of the Nigerian Army to conduct joint operations in collaboration with other security and para-military agencies in aid to civil authority. “The objective is to reinvigorate all existing operations with additional manpower, equipment and resources to address the lingering security problems in the country. “At the end of the exercise which is also conducted simultaneously by other divisions in the Army, the Python must have swallowed all the bandits, rustlers, terrorists, kidnappers, robbers and militants in the country. “The Python will also swallow thugs and other miscreants that may raise their heads to disturb peace in the country,” Buratai said. In his welcome address, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division of Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Musa Yusuf, said the exercise was planned to have an operational edge based on actual intelligence to combat insecurity in reaI-time. Dignitaries at the flag-off include the Special Adviser on Security to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Adekunle Ajanaku; Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Logistics Command, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Nnamdi Ekeh; Commandant, Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), AVM Abubarkar Liman; Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Western Naval Command (WNC) Rear Admiral Habila Ngalabak and heads of Police, Department of State Services (DSS) in the zone and other paramilitary agencies. Security: Buratai flags off exercise Python Dance III in Kebbi ‘Operation Python Dance will combat arms stockpiling’ 'Python now to dance nationwide'