The guideline for the conduct of 2019 general elections recently released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is trailed by controversies especially from the opposition parties under the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and others. With few weeks to the election, no one can tell how a lasting solution could be found to the crisis brewing between INEC and some political parties, pro-democracy groups and some individuals over alleged “unsavory” insertions into the regulations and guidelines for the conduct of the 2019 general elections. Analysts believe that unless something urgent is done, problem might be lurking in the event INEC decides to go into the elections with the guidelines. The National Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who signed the 33-page document, said it was done in exercise of the powers conferred on the commission by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). Highlights of the guidelines which were unveiled during the commission’s meeting with leaders of political parties included simultaneous accreditation and voting. The guidelines said voting shall be in accordance with the Continuous Accreditation and Voting System (CAVS) procedures as specified in the Regulations and Guidelines, the Election Manual and any other guide issued by the commission. However, this was at variance with the demand of leaders of some 61 opposition parties who insisted that INEC should retain separate accreditation and voting system as obtained in 2011 and 2015. The political parties said Nigerian voters were familiar with the old system which, according to them, gives room to know the actual number of people that were accredited at every polling unit before election commences. Trouble over the new guidelines started when Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, the national chairman of Action Peoples Party  (APP), who doubles as national spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), reportedly interjected at the meeting, raising the alarm over the release of the guidelines without the input of political parties. He alleged that simultaneous accreditation and voting would give room for a scanty polling unit that will aid rigging. The political parties also insisted that the commission must provide a form to record and announce accreditation and issue it out to the political parties before voting starts, to deter tampering with the results since accreditation has been known. Also, the political parties are demanding for the total number of PVC collected before the election. It was gathered that the commission agreed to stop PVC collection one week to election and give out the numbers collected at the state level to the stakeholders. However, the refusal of the commission to accept the request of the opposition parties to use the 2015 method of accreditation during the 2019 election has remained a source of concern. The 61 parties have already filed a suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja accusing INEC of what they termed “manipulated 2019 election guidelines.” The plaintiffs in the suite included APP led by Ugochinyere; Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) led by Chief Sam Eke; Redemption Party of Nigeria (RPN) led by Nsehe Nseobong and Action Alliance (AA) led by Barr. Kenneth Udeze while the defendant is INEC. Mr. Ugochinyere said Section 155 of the Electoral Act gives political parties the power to challenge INEC’s election guidelines in court. However, the national chairman and presidential candidate of Freedom and Justice Party (FJP), Dr. Abraham Breakforth, said INEC was right in the simultaneous accreditation/voting pattern as the older method had led to the disenfranchisement  of over 45 per cent of accredited voters in previous elections. “Out of 66 million registered voters nationwide in 2015 and the 43 million accredited for the election, only 28 million returned to vote. The question is ‘where are the remaining 15 million accredited voters?” he asked. “Separate accreditation and voting makes it cumbersome; many will be on the line for long time to get accredited and after they leave the centre, to return and cast their vote is a problem,” he said. Also, a leading public affairs analyst, Mr. Jide Ojo, said he is in support of INEC, saying the newly proposed method is better. “Much as I sympathise with the positions being canvassed by the opposition political parties aimed at enhancing the credibility of the country’s elections, I dare say that this particular demand is not in consonance with global best practice in elections,” Ojo said. Few days ago, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo also accused INEC of working closely with the ruling APC to rig the elections. But Prof. Yakubu had during a meeting with police authorities on Monday debunked the claim. “I want to tell you that we as a commission, we have never been under any pressure to do what is wrong. We will never compromise our integrity to do what the law says we shouldn’t and for the 2019 general elections, I want to assure and reassure Nigerians that votes and nothing but votes will count,” he said. INEC and the dimming hope of Electoral Act amendment War of words over forthcoming Katsina LG elections Political parties sue INEC over election guidelines