Youth in Niger state have been advised to avoid being used as thugs by politicians to cause havoc during the forthcoming general elections. Commissioner for Information and Strategy Alh Danjuma Sallau gave  the advice while inaugurating the All Progressives Congress (APC) ward Chairmen for Munya Local Government Councils in Sarakin Pawa yesterday. The Commissioner said over the years elections were characterized by violence with the youths always at the receiving end of the acts, adding that APC was determined to putting an end to such scenarios. He accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of entrenching the culture of violence during elections with the youths serving as cannon fodders, noting that were often used and dumped. He said disturbed by the development, the APC administration in the state has embarked on many empowerment programmes aimed at taking them off the streets. He urged the youths in the state to take advantage of the window provided by the administration by acquiring skills so that they can become productive members of the society, adding that the era of thuggery is fast disappearing. According to him, instead of being used as tools of violence by politicians, the youths should also seek for elective positions to enable them contribute their quota  to national development. Alhaji Sallau reminded the APC ward chairmen in Munya that the party was confident in their ability to perform their assigned responsibilities. The Commissioner, who cautioned them against anti party activities, also charged them to work for  the success of APC candidates from top to the bottom in  the forthcoming general elections. Speaking on behalf of the ward Chairmen, the Chairman of Gini ward, Dauda Barde, expressed their readiness to justify the confidence reposed on them by the party. Sallau also received some defectors from the opposition PDP into the party. Nigerians await 2015 polls amid threat of violence Be prepared with your PVC, youths urged APC gets anti-rigging election youth teams in Nasarawa