Yobe State Fiscal Responsibility Board (YSFRB) has trained 26 staff from various ministries and agencies on revenue generation skills. The Chairman of the Board, Alhaji Musa Kamshi, disclosed this in Damaturu at a two-day workshop it organised on “Standard Practice of Monitoring Budget Implementation: Inspection of Projects and Record Keeping”. He said the participants, drawn from relevant organisations, would use the knowledge learnt from the workshop to boost economic growth, reduce poverty, provide jobs and improve the lives of people in the state. He said that three fiscal policies have been identified in the state and would start being piloted to review the existing revenue rates in line with current economic realities. “That is, to raise and spend government revenues in a manner that will foster growth and development leading to improvement in the well-being of citizens. Disposal of public assets, such as dysfunctional state-owned companies. “Funds realised from this exercise will be invested in socially oriented programmes,” Amshi said. He said the board had worked out plans to improve the revenue sources in public finance management, agriculture and environmental sector, and works, housing and transport sectors of the state. The Chairman said the participants also learnt the objectives of the state’s  fiscal policy that are in line with  raising and spending government revenue in a manner that will foster economic growth and development, leading to improvement in the wellbeing of citizens. Also, according to him, the workshop has dwelt on controlling the growth of recurrent expenditure particularly personnel cost to less than five per cent per annum. “What is expected of YSFRB in this objective is to check and monitor the annual budgets to confirm if the personnel cost is in consonance with this objective. The board will also monitor the implementation of the forecasted target that by 2020 IGR would fund eight per cent of the total recurrent expenditure,” he said. Amshi said during the workshop, some of the vital but ignored sources of revenue have been identified, which included private schools registration fees, tax clearance certificates, horse riding and blockage of public roads levies. Adamawa, Yobe seek revenue formula review No more support to financially reckless states - Osinbajo Curbing the culture of fiscal irresponsibility