Following the repeated violent attacks in Ilorin, Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed has banned street rallies in Kwara State after setting up a joint task force to curb the incidents. The governor made the announcement during a state broadcast, yesterday, in which he reiterated that his government would not let the state slide back to the dark era of fear and violence. He said only political rallies in designated areas and with prior notification to the state police command would be allowed henceforth. “The state police command is hereby authorised to ensure full compliance,” the governor stated. Governor Ahmed also told political parties and their supporters to campaign and solicit votes through lawful manner and refrain from deploying divisive and inciting rhetoric or instigating violence against real or perceived opponents. “Thuggery, vandalism, intimidation and other forms of criminality will neither be allowed no condoned in any part of the state,” he said. “Following assurances by the security agencies, I urge all our people to go about their lawful activities without fear for their safety. Our security agencies are capable and ready to forestall any further recurrence of such ugly incidents,” the governor said. According to him, “As your governor, I assure you that no effort will be spared by my government to protect the lives and property of all law-abiding residents of the state. I also urge you to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activities, movements and developments to the security agencies for prompt action. “In this regard, I have approved the establishment of a Joint Military Task Force comprising the police, army, navy, air force, Department of State Security, Civil Defence and National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). This body is tasked with the responsibility of providing an extra layer of security and preventing a recurrence of the political violence witnessed in the last couple of days,” he said. Jonathan’s visit and the politics of Kwara Despite peace accord, political violence takes centre stage in Kwara Destruction of billboards pitches APC against PDP