The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has rejected what it termed “contemplations” by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to consider the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2019 general elections in Rivers state. The PDP said its position is predicated on the “unacceptable and compromising suggestion” by INEC, through its National Commissioner and Chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, that certain circumstances could lead to the postponement of election, in Rivers State, to accommodate the APC, which currently do not have candidates in the elections, following the quashing of its congresses by the Court. The PPCO in a statement by its Director Media and Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Saturday said the  suggestion by INEC is distasteful and only points to a “collusion with the APC in its plot to stalemate electoral processes” in some strategic states. He said the PDP would firmly resist any attempt by the APC to rig the elections. “Currently, the APC is not on the ballot and has no candidates for the governorship, Senatorial, House of Representatives and State Assembly elections in Rivers and Zamfara states following the voiding of the APC congresses in these states by the court. “In line with this reality, the ballot paper in all elections in Rivers and Zamfara States must, under no circumstance, bear the logo of the APC. “The PDP insists that INEC must base all its actions and contemplations for the elections on this reality and should under no circumstance predicate any action on a hypothetical condition. “It is also important for INEC to know that Okoye’s advocacy for the APC detracts from the commission’s neutrality and exposes it as a compromised umpire. “The PDP therefore charges the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to be appropriately guided in the conduct of the general elections,” the PPCO said. 2019: INEC, Presidency setting stage for crisis over Zakari's new role - PPCO APC sues INEC over Zamfara 2019 Elections: PDP attacks INEC, says it's compromised