President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the National leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu would fully be in charge of his second term campaigns. Buhari made the disclosure during the inauguration of his presidential campaign council today at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. He urged members of the council to cooperate with Tinubu who is the co- chairman of the council and that, they should keep their eyes on the ball. The President, who said their campaigns would be based on their performance in the last three and half years, urged the council members to resist being provoked. “Even though, we have only 40 days, this campaign is going to tax us all, because we intend to touch all corners of our great and vast country. But I must also add that, though we will all be deeply involved, I would like to assure the nation that I will do my part without making governance or my work suffer. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, my co-chairman, will be fully in charge, and is going to be on 24-hour vigil. “That is to say, the operational buck of this campaign stops at his table, and I therefore, urge all of us in the leadership of this campaign, in the field operations on the campaign trail and in the secretariat to consult with Asiwaju whenever guidance is needed. “It is on this note, and in the name of God, that I now have the pleasure of inaugurating the APC Presidential Campaign Council 2019,” he said. He said the Director-General, Rotimi Amaechi will have overall responsibility for all aspects of the campaign, including field operations; while the Secretary will be responsible for all administrative and treasury-related activities of the council. In his remarks, Amaechi who enumerated some of the projects executed by the administration, said they were requesting for another tenure to enable them complete the ongoing projects across the country. Tinubu, Dangote, Otedola make Buhari’s campaign council Buhari, Tinubu congratulate Akeredolu 2019: Obasanjo, defections can’t stop Buhari - Tinubu