Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow is the Governor of Adamawa State. In this interview, Bindow, a former federal lawmaker, speaks on the reason why he said President Muhammadu Buhari does not need to campaign in Adamawa, his re-election campaign, insecurity in the North East and the chances of a former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, in the presidential contest, especially in Adamawa.  Daily Trust: What is next after you have kicked off your campaign? Governor Jibrilla Bindow: With the flag-off, we are starting our local government campaign. We have already established campaign councils in each zone and have already inaugurated them to campaign for the president, the governor and all other candidates of the APC. We will go to the local governments to continue with what the zonal campaign teams have started. DT: During the flag-off, you said President Buhari does not need to campaign in Adamawa, which is the home state of the opposition PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Don’t you think there is a challenge? Bindow: As a former senator, l was not only opportune to be in the Senate, but l was also the Vice Chairman of the Committee on Defence, and l knew how this area used to be in terms of insurgency. I was almost the de factor chairman because the chairman didn’t like coming to the North East because of Boko Haram. Honestly, after President Buhari was sworn in, we started seeing what he was doing in terms of fighting insurgency. The commitment of the president in fighting Boko Haram is what everybody must commend. Before now, they (Boko Haram insurgents) used to go in thousands to capture villages and towns. They even captured my own local government, Mubi – the second largest town in the state – and changed the name of Mubi to Modinatul Islam. So basically, the president has done very well. DT: Are you saying there is no chance for Atiku Abubakar in Adamawa? Bindow: We want to campaign based on issues. On fighting insurgency, President Buhari has done a lot. In terms of community development; there’s no federal road in the state where work is not going on. You can go and verify. From Yola to Mubi, Mubi to Maiduguri, Yola to Gombe, Numan to Taraba, and Mayo Belwa to Jada, which is where Atiku hails from, that road has been bad for over 20 years, work is going on. So, will you tell those people not to vote for Buhari? They have seen development and change in their lives. So, by the time we say “vote for Buhari”, they will do it. DT: Would you say government has done enough in view of Boko Haram laying claim to some towns when government claimed initially that the group had been decimated? Bindow: With the word “enough” that you used, they have done more than enough. Before, towns were taken over. But since Buhari came, no single town, no matter how small, has been taken over by Boko Haram. So, on whether they have done enough, I will say they have done more than enough. DT: Are you not worried about the state of your party, the APC, few weeks to the general elections? Bindow: I used to be worried. But right now, we have settled and things have started taking shape. The centre is stable now. So, there is no cause for alarm. Even the reward system has been addressed. This type of thing happens everywhere. There are problems in all the parties. The PDP has more problems than the APC. DT: Some APC governors are supporting their preferred candidates in other parties because they could not get APC tickets. What is your take on this? Bindow: If it is happening, it is very unfortunate, because in democracy, I don’t think it is acceptable for you to support another party’s candidate. For us in Adamawa, we are all APC and there is something we call “Sak”. That is from top to bottom, there is no chance of voting another person. DT: Despite the obvious odds against you, you scaled through the primaries. How did you achieve that? Bindow: It is normal: in politics, everybody struggles to get a ticket. So, that was not the first time I underwent a primary. I was in the Senate and went through a lot of problems during the primary, but you know, I am always the masses’ candidate because of the perception that I can turn things around. In the last primary, the only challenge we had was when the stakeholders said it should be indirect primary, but at the last-minute, they changed it to direct. In the direct primary, I got about 196, 000 votes. So, I just need another 50,000 to win in the general elections. If my party people gave me almost 200,000, how about the general public that is happy with what we are doing? DT: What is your position on the raging debate on the new national minimum wage? Bindow: As far as we are concerned in Adamawa, whatever the Federal Government agrees to pay, we will also pay. I cannot do otherwise. DT:  How do you get money to do the work you are doing in the state? Bindow: I don’t get any extra money, but coming from the private sector, I know how to manage resources. For your information, the management of resources and human beings is what makes a good governor because it is not easy to manage human beings. God is on my side. I am a prayerful person and I believe in God, especially now that I know I don’t have anybody but God. DT: We have seen the Organised Labour at your re-election rallies. What is the magic in getting them on your side? Bindow: In whatever I do, I carry everybody along. Whatever I do in the state, even if it does not affect them, I call them in and they see how I do things. I have been paying their salaries and don’t have problem with them. I am always with them and whenever they invite me, I am always there for them. DT: Where do you draw your inspiration from? Bindow: Honestly, I have a passion to serve and I want to serve my people. Also, I know that God who decided to anoint me to be in this office has honoured me. So, when God gives you a position like governor, you should not play with it. Try and leave a legacy so that when you leave, people will point to it and say you did this and that. DT: How do you relax? Bindow: I don’t relax. If I sleep for one or two hours, I am okay. I sleep around 01.00am and wake up at 05.00am to pray; and my day starts. I go to the office at 07.00am. Sometimes, I spend time with my mother in the morning before going to the office. People with problems will go and stay in her place and I will have to start addressing their problems. I close late from the office to inspect my projects because I believe in supervision. I don’t believe in people coming to tell me stories. When God gives you a position like this, He will also assign some angels to protect you. DT: What would you be telling the people when you go out to campaign? Bindow: Honestly, there are certain local government areas I may not personally go to campaign, especially in the northern zone where I come from, because I have done so much in terms of development in that area. They know that I am their son, and seeing what I have done, they know that if I return as governor, I will do more for them. So, I will rather go to other areas to campaign. Out of 21 local governments, I have projects in 19; if it is not roads, then hospitals and schools. There are so many things that we can tell the people. The Mayo Belwa-Jada-Ganye Road where Atiku comes from is being rehabilitated by Buhari and there is no way he will not win election there. Atiku and Bamanga Tukur are from that area. If they did not maintain the road when they had the opportunity, why will the people, except if they are ungrateful, leave the person who is working for them to go and vote for the man who did nothing for them. Buhari doesn’t need to campaign in Adamawa – Bindow In Adamawa, Bindo to battle APC chieftains for re-election As Aisha Buhari’s brother eyes Bindow’s seat