The two factions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state attended the peace accord meeting called by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ilorin on Thursday. The faction recognised by court led by Ishola Balogun Fulani and the one recognised by the national body of APC were both invited for a closed door meeting at the INEC office before the commencement of the peace accord signing meeting. Meanwhile, the court recognised APC which was respresented by Kwara south chairman, Alhaji Jimoh Balogun later walked out of INEC with their supporters while the Hon Bashir Bolarinwa led faction recognised by the national body of the APC came back to the meeting and signed the pack on behalf of the party. Effort to get what transpired at the meeting between INEC and the two factions was unsuccessful. But the governorship candidate of APC recognised by the national party, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Friday said the Ishola Balogun-Fulani led APC was dismissed from the peace accord signing ceremony which he said as put to rest rumour concerning who the real candidate of the party is. Abdulrazaq while speaking at the APC stakeholders’ meeting in the state capital Ilorin said “Balogun-Fulani came to the peace accord but he was sent away. This reaffirms our position that we are the true members of the APC. The other ones are just doing the bidding of their masters in the PDP,” AbdulRazaq said . “The whole world now know who the authentic candidate is. We are the only one known to the INEC as that event shows.” He also announced the appointment of three director-generals to coordinate his campaign. “We have decided to do things differently by appointing three DGs, each representing each of the senatorial districts. We hereby announce Ambassador Yahaya Seriki as the DG for Kwara Central,” according to AbdulRazaq. He said the remaining DGs will be unveiled at the stakeholders’ meetings to be held in their zones. The candidate however called on party members and leaders to work as one team to wrestle power from the PDP, praising the Kwara people for the massive acceptance of his aspiration and messages. Hours later, the court- backed APC in a statement explained that the absence of its chairman, Hon. Ishola Balogun Fulani at the INEC office in Ilorin to sign a peace pact with other political parties was because the Bashir Bolarinwa’s faction of the APC was asked to sign the peace pact because it was its members that were causing mayhem in the state. The statement which was signed by its publicity secretary, Dr Dele Kayode denied claims by the officials of the factional APC that Balogun- Fulani was at the INEC office on Thursday. The statement read, ” The Balogun Fulani led All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state wishes to set the record straight as regards the so- called peace accord signed today, 17th January, 2019 by political parties in the state. “That Balogun- Fulani was not at INEC office, Ilorin as claimed by the Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa’ s faction. That the Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa’s faction was specifically allowed to sign the peace pact because they are the one causing mayhem. “That should INEC refuses to recognise Balogun Fulani led APC, it will be tantamount to disobedience of court judgment and may attract contempt of court. That there is no cause for alarm.” Kwara: Court declares Ishola Fulani-led APC excos authentic Court affirms Saraki loyalists as authentic APC exco in Kwara Dissolved Kwara APC conducts Presidential Primary, delegates vote Buhari