The leadership of Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) has condemned the decision of Imeobi over the endorsement of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in 16 February
Polls. Ohanaeze youth however made known that the decision reached by Imeobi was faulty owing to reason that it did not follow the required constitution processes establishing the body thereby causing deep division among them. The President General of the youth group, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro made this known Friday in Abakaliki when reacting to Imeobi endorsement of the PDP presidential candidate. His words: “Any decision reached by Imeobi are subject to ratification at the general assembly of Ohanaeze, that is why we the youth Council of Ohanaeze rejected their recent decision in favour of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP as the preferred presidential candidate of the zone in 16th February. “So that their decision is faulty and cannot be taken and binding on the entire population of Ndigbo”,he said. Mazi Isiguzoro further alleged that those 30 members of Imeobi which is the apex decision body of Ndigbo who took part in the decision were members of the opposition party PDP. He added that their stand on such sensitive issue like endorsement of presidential candidate should have followed the required proceeding. He however called on the people of the region and Nigerians in general particularly members of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) to disregard the endorsement as it is null and void. “The issue of endorsement by Ndigbo is a very sensitive issue so for 30 members of Imeobi to have sold their intellectual prowess is a thing to question and that is why we stand bold to say that they were PDP members and friends of Alhaji Atiku Abukakar. Therefore all endorsements is hereby cancel”,he explained. He insisted that Ohanaeze Youth council with other bodies like pro-Biafra groups would soon meet to take proper position on who would be the preferred candidate in the 16 February Polls. “Ohanaeze youth council is highly disappointed and on that note we are going to meet with Pro Biafra groups to take a proper position where Ndigbo would vote as regard to the forthcoming presidential election. “Therefore we warn the cabals to desist from taken such decision that would jeopardize the political future of Ndigbo like they did in 2015 elections”, he said. 2019: Ohanaeze endorses Atiku/Obi presidential bid Why we’ve not endorsed Buhari, Atiku, others - Ohanaeze 2015:Ohanaeze imeobi shelves  motion to endorse Jonathan