The Wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari has called on women to guard their votes and make their votes count in the 2019 general elections. She made the call at the northeast town hall meeting held in Bauchi on Wednesday. Mrs Buhari who was represented by wife of the Vice President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, said that women should vote and stay near their polling stations until the votes are counted. She advised them to have their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and get ready to exercise their civic rights and vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and other APC candidates in the elections. She commended women for their contributions to the country’s democratic process and their support for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration. Mrs Osinbajo reminded the women about the various programmes being executed by the Buhari administration to alleviate their sufferings and improve the economic wellbeing of their families. In her address, the wife of Bauchi State governor, Mrs. Hadiza Mohammed Abubakar, commended the wife of the president for her laudable programmes targeted at improving the lives of women in the country. She assured Mrs. Buhari of the continued support of Bauchi women and other women across the northeast region for President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. In his remark, the Chairman, National Working Committee Women and Youth Presidential Campaign, Brigadier General Muhammad Buba Marwa (rtd) advised women against using Henna before the elections. According to him, Henna will prevent Card Readers from recognising their finger prints which may make it difficult to cast their votes for President Buhari and other APC candidates. Marwa also urged youths to collect their PVCs in order to participate and cast their votes for the APC while advising them to be law-abiding and peaceful before, during and after the elections. A Plateau APC Women chieftain and former Deputy Governor, Pauline Tallen also re-echoed the need for women to suspend the use of Henna until after the elections. “If you use henna, it will block the lines of your thumb thereby making it impossible for the card readers to identify your finger prints and make it also impossible for the ink to stick to the thumb for printing on the ballot paper.” The town hall meeting was attended by women and youths from all the six states in the North-East. Dignitaries present include the wives of governors of Nasarawa and Borno states, former APC national women leader, Ramatu Tijjani, Senator Binta Masi Garba, among others. Vote for my husband again, Aisha Buhari urges women Aisha Buhari visits Bauchi today Aisha Buhari to women, youths: Protect your votes