It is very unfair to allege that President Muhammadu Buhari is corrupt and anyone who makes the allegation should bring the evidence, Minister of Sports and Youth Development Barrister Solomon Dalung said in Abuja yesterday. He spoke at the 16th Daily Trust Dialogue, where he was a special guest. Dalung defended the Buhari administration against allegations of corruption, saying “Buhari is not corrupt.”  The minister was responding to a presentation by former PDP presidential aspirant Dr. Datti Yusuf Baba Ahmed, who accused the Buhari administration of corruption. Dalung said he understood Baba Ahmed’s frustration because the political system could be frustrating and he was also “schemed out by dollars at Port Harcourt,” apparently referring to the PDP national convention of last November, where Baba Ahmed contested and lost. Commending Daily Trust for adopting this year’s dialogue on the theme: Youth and Democracy: the Nigerian challenge”, Dalung said: “When there are such opportunities, let us move away from lamentation and blame game. Scholars come to paint a picture of doom. Buhari took over power by preparing himself as a man of integrity. 2015 was a revolution and there is change everywhere including security.” The minister said three years ago, most Nigerians would have found it very difficult to move around or attend an occasion such as yesterday’s but that at this year’s Dialogue, “people are moving around freely.” He said Buhari prepared himself for leadership by building a record of personal integrity, and he urged every Nigerian youngster to prepare himself or herself for leadership by similarly building a record of integrity. Dalung also said it is not true that one cannot achieve anything in Nigeria unless he or she has a godfather. He said, “Look at me. I have no godfather. But I am where I am now.” Dalung wants EFCC, ICPC to investigate corruption in sports Dalung wants EFCC, ICPC to investigate corruption in sports Buhari''s fight against corruption inappropriate, Baba Ahmed