The Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmoud Yakubu, said that the commission was not under pressure to do any wrong. A former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, had on Sunday, expressed doubt about INEC’s integrity to conduct free, fair and credible elections. Obasanjo had also accused President Muhammadu Buhari, of plotting to rig the general elections. Prof. Yakubu spoke on the allegations by Obasanjo during a meeting with the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and other senior police officers. “This is to be expected in an election year when people make all sorts of insinuations,” he said. “I want to tell you that we as a commission have never been under any pressure to do what is wrong. We will never compromise our integrity to do what the law says that we shouldn’t and for the 2019 general elections, I want to assure and reassure Nigerians that votes and nothing but votes will count,” he added. Prof. Yakubu said with  cooperation from the security agencies, Nigerians would have a pleasant voting experience in 2019. He said that the nation looked forward to seeing INEC and the Nigeria Police Force conduct credible elections. Mr Yakubu said that the media would be provided unimpeded access to the commission during the elections and called for a close working relationship between the commission and the police at all levels. Earlier, the Acting IGP said that the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), had been directed to set up special investigation teams. He said that the teams would take into custody and undertake detailed investigation of all arrested electoral offenders across the country. Adamu said the teams shall liaise with INEC towards the prompt processing of the case files of the offenders for prosecution. ‘We are not under pressure to do what is wrong,’ INEC boss replies Obasanjo Obasanjo attacks Buhari, Osinbajo, INEC Why I lost in 2015, Jonathan reveals at book launch