The Plateau State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described last Saturday’s disruption of President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign as a sign of nemesis catching up with the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). The crowd at the presidential rally at Rwang Pam Stadium took over the podium while others disconnected the pubic address system and carted the cables away, thereby making it difficult for President Buhari and other dignitaries to make their speeches. In a statement by the Media and Publicity Committee chairman  of the PDP State Campaign Council, Abraham Yiljap, the party said the same crowd which  disrupted the APC rally were the same hired from several places to stir trouble in Mangu during a rally to flag off the PDP gubernatorial campaign. During the APC presidential rally, the statement said, the crowd destroyed most PDP campaign billboards in the city, destroyed cars and also stole most people’s handsets/personal belongings before eventually turning on their paymasters by taking over the podium. The statement stressed that what happened at the stadium was typical of APC crowd, pointing out that they were those hired to cause mayhem in Mangu just after the PDP governorship flag off on January 8. They also came again to the PDP presidential rally at the Polo field on January 12 before the peaceful  PDP crowd overwhelmed them. “What a prize to pay to rent a crowd! It is now evident to all that Governor Lalong and his party have indeed lost the battle for the soul of Plateau State. His visitors had to beat a hasty retreat out of town. Governor Lalong has wired himself to fail. He had since disconnected himself from the people who gave him the mandate in the first place and had been hanging on the shoulders of President Buhari to get a second term. “So, Buhari knows that he has no votes enough to win Plateau in the February 16 presidential election. This presidential outing in Jos has been the most wasteful expenditure of public funds!” APC, PDP test strength in Buhari’s base tomorrow 2015: Inside Nigeria’s most unusual political campaigns PDP, APC trade blames over violence in Ilorin