The Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), has predicted that most parts of Nigeria would experience increased temperatures between January and April, 2019 because of the prevailing climate variations. NiMet’s in its 2019 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP), said that there would be departures from long-term averages for the day and night-time temperatures for January, February, March and April. The SRP predicted that while cold season would prevail in January and February, the hot season would dominate in March and April. According to the prediction, greater parts of the country are expected to record near average temperatures during these months, while some areas will experience temperature anomalies of about two degrees Celsius. “January day time temperature prediction shows very distinct warmer-than-normal temperatures conditions over areas like Sokoto, Yelwa, Shaki, Osogbo, Ondo, Umuahia and Uyo. “However, colder-than-normal conditions are expected over places like Lagos Island, Gusau, Zaria, Kaduna, Jos, Abuja, Lafia and Yola, while the day time temperatures over the rest of the country would remain normal. “Night temperatures are expected to remain normal and colder-than-normal over most parts, while hotter night temperatures are expected over places around Sokoto, Gusau, Yelwa, Katsina, Minna, Gombe, Jalingo and Enugu,’’ NiMet predicted. NiMet further predicted that the day time temperature outlook for February portrayed a warming trend, adding that temperatures were expected to be warmer-than-normal across the entire country. It also stated that most northern cities and Lagos were expected to experience colder than normal day time temperatures, while normal conditions were predicted for Yelwa, Bida, Minna, Abuja, Lafia, Makurdi and Lokoja. According to the prediction, southern parts of the country are expected to experience warmer than normal temperatures during the day. “The day time temperature forecast for April portends an above normal temperature in most places across the country. “Maximum temperature values are likely to be above normal within the range of 0.2 to above 0.8 degrees Celsius in most southern, central and northern cities,’’ NiMet predicted. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the agency on Thursday presented to the public the 2019 SRP, predicting below normal to normal rainfall across the country in 2019. (NAN) How 2018 seasonal rainfall will impact farmers NiMet predicts late onset, early cessation of rain in 2019 NiMET prediction and dams in the North