Nigerians under the aegis of Arewa Youths Solidarity (AYS) and the Ijaw Youths Peaceful Democratic Forum (IPDF) in the South South, have said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is using 2023 general elections to deceive a large chunk of Nigerians in order to attract votes and retain federal power in 2019. Addressing a joint press conference on Friday in Abuja, the National Coordinator of the Arewa Youths, Alhaji Abdullahi Hassan Amper, said the APC had failed in governance and should be kicked out of power in 2019. He particularly called on the electorate in the South East geo-political zone not to allow themselves to be deceived that there would be power shift to the region in 2023. “We are calling on the Igbo nation not to be deceived by the antics of the APC which promised in one breath, to allow the Igbos the presidency in 2023 and in another breath promising the Yorubas the presidency in 2023. Who will they really give the presidency to in 2023? Do we have two presidents of the Federal Republic of Nigeria? “There is no home or village without an unemployed graduate. This is very unfortunate. An Atiku/Obi presidency will reduce to the bearest minimum the unemployment rate in the country since they are employers of labour. “It is common knowledge that direct family members of the President are in the ministries, departments and parastatals. It is quite unfortunate the role of the cabal in running the affairs of governance,” he said. He said the APC should not distract Nigerians with “their fake promises” stressing that only the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar has the capacity to fix the security, economic and other challenges bedevilling the country, if elected. He expressed worry over the resurgence of Boko Haram attacks in the North East and invasion of villages in Zamfara and other states by gunmen, saying a new PDP government would restore the country’s lost grounds. 2023 is upstaging 2019 APC chieftain tasks Igbos on Buhari’s re-election bid Osinbajo and the Politics of 2023