President Muhammadu Buhari has assented to the Discrimination Against Persons with disabilities (Prohibition) Act, 2018. The Act prohibits all forms of discrimination on ground of disability and imposes fine of N1m for corporate bodies and N100, 000 for individuals or a term of six months imprisonment for violation concurrently. Presidential aide on National Assembly (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, said the new law provided for a five-year transitional period within which public buildings, structures or automobile are to be modified to be accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, including those on wheelchairs. “Before erecting any public structure, its plan shall be scrutinized by the relevant authority to ensure that the plan conforms with the building code. “A government or government agency, body or individual responsible for the approval of building plans shall not approve the plan of a public building if the plan does not make provision for accessibility facilities in line with the building code,” he said. He said the Act provider that an officer who approves or directs the approval of a building plan that contravenes the building code, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N1m or a term of imprisonment of two years or both. “Discrimination is prohibited in public transportation facilities and service providers are to make provision for the physically, visually and hearing impaired and all persons howsoever challenged. This applies to Seaports, Railways and Airport facilities. “The rights and privileges include education, healthcare, priority in accommodation and emergencies. Furthermore, all public organisations are to reserve at least 5 % of employment opportunities for these persons,” he quoted the Act. He said the Act also provided the establishment of National Commission for Persons with Disabilities with Executive Secretary as the head. Disability Act: Buhari approves N1m fine for discrimination against physically challenged persons Protecting the physically challenged World Disability Day: Stakeholders seek adequate inclusion