Comrade Issa Obalowu Aremu is a Nigerian trade union activist and labour leader. He is the General Secretary of the National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria and Vice President of the IndustriALL Global Union. In this interview, he speaks about his foray in politics and why he joined the race for Kwara State governorship on the platform of the Labour Party (LP).  Daily Trust: Many people know you as an activist, trade unionist and writer, what prompted you to join politics and seeking to be governor of Kwara State? Comrade Issa Aremu: I have always been an activist from secondary school up to undergraduate days. Thanks to good public education which inspired civic knowledge, patriotism, pan-Africanism, anti-imperialism, as well as anti-apartheid consciousness. I’m proudly a democratic socialist in terms of ideological leaning. I have spent almost three decades in trade unionism, organizing workers into unions and defending their rights against exploitation and oppression. I believe in ‘Popular politics’ which is authoritative allocation of resources for the good of many.  I am an elected General Secretary of National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers (NUTGWN). As at the last count, our union had signed 45 national agreements on improving the wages and salaries of textile workers. Even with the textile sector depression, my union last week concluded a new agreement which raised the minimum wage to N36,000. More than half of those agreements have my signature. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who I took over from, started it all with other great veteran unionists. So, I have always been engaged in the politics of redistribution through collective bargaining, as well as politics of production in reviving collapsed factories, ensuring beneficiation, value addition, and sustainable jobs for our youths. Annually and even daily, we ensure that owners of capital and means of production share profits with working men and women who actually produce wealth through negotiation and dialogue. Work place democracy is politics. I currently hold a number of positions in the labour movement, and all of them through elections. As the Vice President of IndustriALL, Global Union, I was elected by some 40 million workers from Asia, Europe, America, Latin America, Maghreb and of course my dear continent, Africa. Yes, I have written books on Labour and Development, Labour and Trade Unions; Industry and Economy; Africa and Global Affairs; Friends, Comrades and Heroes; Good Governance and Democracy among other governance issues. Many philosophers, including myself, have analyzed the worsening underdevelopment of Nigeria and it’s time we changed things for better. I have paid my dues like many of my comrades in the struggle against military dictatorships. From my student days in ABU and later University of Port Harcourt, we demanded an end to military rule. It is a scandal today that those who never appreciated or dared to fight for democracy are the reckless drivers of this process with all the mess that trail it. By being a governor, we intend to do a quality control of our democracy to serve the interest of 3 million Kwarans not just few self-serving ruling elite. We intend to “de-capture” our dear state form wholesale personalization of common wealth. We have produced three governors since 1999, but certainly not good governance. Incidence of poverty is unacceptably high.  According to Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the North-West and North-East have the highest poverty rate with 77.7% and 76.3% respectively. The North-Central is the third with 67% poverty rate; Kwara State, which is within the North-Central, is 76%. DT: You clearly indicated in your blueprint that yours will be a departure from the ‘old order’ in Kwara. How are you going to uproot an established empire? Comrade:  Kwara, like Lagos, Kano and Rivers states, was created by General Gowon in 1967. In the 70s and 80s, in terms of literacy, gross domestic products, industrial capacity utilization, Kwara was a leading state. Kwara used to be the cesspool of human capital with skills and integrity which built the old Northern region and Nigeria in general.  Kwara produced eminent religious scholars and educationists like late Sheik Adam-el-Ilory, Sheik Mohammed Kamaldeen, David Oyedepo (Christian cleric). The first lawyer in Northern Nigeria is from Ilorin -Alhaji A.G.F. Abdulrazaq (SAN). His Royal Highness, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, is a retired Justice of the Court of Appeal. Justice Saidu Kawu and Alhaji Aliyu Alarape Salma (SAN) are all from Ilorin. The Belgore family has made notable contributions to the profession, with Justice Alfa Belgore as the former Chief Justice of the Federation. We have the former President of the Court of Appeal, late Justice Mustapha Akanbi. There are lots of notable politicians, musicians, journalists, soldiers, diplomats, educationists, soccer stars and so on. We have the best of Nigerian entrepreneurs in all fields, so it is simply unacceptable that Kwara State today is personalized and captured. Kwara is 28th in the ranking of 36 states in terms of GDP. Children are out of schools, as teachers are not paid. SUBEB is not funded, public schools have simply collapsed. On top of that, the state is run based on exclusion and almost on cult of personality and dictatorship of one man, one party. Labour Party is set to return Kwara to a leading state with development agenda as it was in the 70s and 80s. On May 25th, once elected, we will launch Vision 2030 consistent with UN Sustainable Development Goals. Kwara State already missed out on Millennium Development Goals which ended in 2015 because our governors were never on state duty.  We call it 5-point agenda: 5Ps namely People, Prosperity, Popular Participation, Partnership and Peace. We are the only party with humans on its logo. Kwara must change from being a poverty destination to prosperity heaven for our 3 million people. LP will reindustrialize Kwara; there will be a factory in each of the 16 LGAs. The key word is value addition and beneficiation to the abundant natural resources of the state. DT: There is this impression that once you are not a candidate of either the APC or PDP you should forget about winning a big contest like governorship, where is your strength? Comrade: I’m glad you said an impression. Interestingly, in real terms, there are two parties in Kwara today: Labour Party with popular  ideology, programs and grounding with working men and women, market women, students, business men and women on one hand, and other parties that are mere hired rallies and vehicles to get to power without responsibilities. Our strength lies in the mass of Kwaran compatriots who are tired of bad governance. DT: The elections are few days away and the PDP and APC leaders are just hurling insults at each other, what do you think is responsible? Comrade: Parties of insults and diatribes are not parties of development. We are appalled with the level of desperation and violence. The 2019 elections must promote peaceful issues-based campaigns. The eyes should be on the ball not on the legs. Contestants are right to disagree on policy issues but must not necessarily be disagreeable at personal level such that we have brothers-on-sisters violence and serial casualties. Recently, some unknown people in two cars with Kwara and NASS number plates respectively were on my trail. I escaped a calculated ambush. I have since notified the new Ag. Inspector General of Police. Let no one shut out alternative voices in desperation. DT: In few words, how would you convince the electorate in Kwara that you would be the ideal governor they have been waiting for? Comrade: With decades of experience in the labour movement, experience in private sector as a working journalist, private sector global unionist, Kwara electorate are already excited that they now have a credible, tested and competent choice. NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, who is also the President of International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) gracefully flag off my campaign. He attested to my credibility by saying “Aremu is intellectually and philosophically fit to lead Kwara to a promised land. He has all it takes to provide quality leadership. He is intellectually very excellent; he has ideological clarity about what a good system should be. Philosophically, he’s aligned with social justice for all.” So, Kwarans are assured of better life under LP.  Aremu joins Kwara gov’ship race We must sack professional politicians – Isa Aremu We must sack ''professional politicians'' –Aremu