The Directorate of Youth Mobilisation of the APC Presidential Campaign Council will tomorrow kick-start a national campaign to deliver 20 million votes for President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on February 16, 2019. Addressing journalists on Monday in Abuja, Dr. Tony Nwoye, who is the Director of Youth Mobilization for campaign council, said they had agreed to pursue the target after getting the solid commitments of President Buhari to take youth development to the ‘Next Level’ if voted to continue power. Dr. Nwoye said the president had agreed to a youth quota in the headship of ministries, departments and agencies, adding that the quota will be far above that of men, women and politicians. The former APC governorship candidate in Enugu State, who spoke in company APC National Youth Leader, Comrade Sadiq Abubakar, said the nationwide youth mobilization campaign was targeted at convincing Nigerian youths and students that they can trust Buhari and Osinbajo. He said, “As you all know, I was recently appointed to head the Youth Mobilization Directorate of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. “After this appointment, I began nationwide consultations with the national youth polity to understand the disposition and aspirations of Nigerian youths and students towards Buhari-Osinbajo 2019. “During the over one week of non-stop nationwide consultations that l spearheaded, in the company of my able assistant and deputy directors, Comrade Sadiq Abubakar, the APC National Youth Leaders, Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed and Mr. Jasper Azulatam, I became convinced that while Nigerian youths deeply appreciate the improved regime of youth development and empowerment under President Buhari, from 2015 till date, the polity is ready for Buhari-Osinbajo 2019 if and only if the prestigious good leadership team is ready to take its youth development programme to the ’Next Level’ of higher youth inclusion in leadership and the economy. “Upon this all-important realization, I and my assistant and deputies quickly came back to Abuja to consult with Mr. President. “This round of consultations happened intensively over a period of two days in which myself, my assistant and deputies were able to extract strong commitments from Mr. President on his readiness to take his youth development programmes to the ’Next Level’ of higher youth inclusion in leadership and the economy through the following: “A youth quota in the headship of Ministries, Departments and Agencies that is above the quota of Men, Women and Politicians. “The activation of a policy targeted at being the largest high-quality factory of the world by 2030 leading to fully legislated and well-funded youth-based programmes in entrepreneurship and industrialization. “The activation of another policy targeted at Nigeria being the African global hub of ICT leading to fully legislated and well-funded youth-based programmes in ICT software and hardware development. “After extracting these commitments from Mr. President, the Directorate quickly reverted back to the leadership of Nigerian youths and had regional consultations and engagements. “Thereupon, the youths and students of Nigeria and the Directorate agreed that Nigerian youths will deliver an avalanche of over Twenty Million Votes to Buhari-Osinbajo 2019.” He called on the Nigerian youths and students to remain steadfast in their resolve and support for Buhari-Osinbajo 2019 despite concerted attempt by some would-be-detractors to blackmail them with sentiments that has no grounding in our national reality. He said they backed Buhari-Osinbajo 2019 based on their positive youth development credentials from 2015 till date, citing the positive infrastructural record, the reawakening of Nigeria’s national Railway Network, the visible upgrade of Nigerian Airports, the revamping of the National Roads and Highways Network, and the record of visible and impactful Poverty Alleviation strategies. Buhari to inaugurate APC Presidential Campaign Council Monday Aisha Buhari to women, youths: Protect your votes Youths rally support for Buhari, Osinbajo re-election in Kogi