The APC says the swift statement by the PDP condemning the purported move to prosecute Justice Walter Onnoghen, Chief Justice of the Federation, over an alleged infraction on the Code of Conduct laws has again exposed the party as one with a natural inclination to rise up in defence of cases of alleged corruption. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said resorting to baseless postulations anytime issues of corruption were leveled against public officers only confirmed what Nigerians already know about the PDP. Issa-Onilu said PDP and corruption were siamese twins that were difficult to separate from each other, stating that “one would have thought that the PDP will call for impartial investigations when corruption cases are levelled against public officers, but spinning falsehoods and conspiracies remains the opposition party’s favourite past time. “The fight against corruption remains a cardinal promise made by the APC to the electorate. We assure the PDP and indeed all Nigerians that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration remains uncompromising in its determination to rid the country of this malady. “As noted on many occasions by President Buhari, it is only those who have committed crimes that need to worry. The APC administration will not hesitate to investigate and prosecute any public officer if and when such is indicted for corruption. “Achieving acceptable elections in all democratic climes is a collective effort which require the contributions and support of all well-meaning Nigerians, political parties, institutions and sundry interests. “Commendably, in successive elections conducted under the APC administration, the Party has played by the rules, which has led to credible elections. This cannot be said of the PDP era when state institutions were deployed to manipulate the electoral process.” The party urged Nigerians to disregard what it called PDP’s baseless conspiracy theory on APC’s participation in the 2019 general elections and voiced its commitment to ensuring that the forthcoming election was ranked as one of the freest, most credible and peaceful elections in the country. All Eyes On Justice Onnoghen CJN sets up special courts for corruption cases Special courts for corruption cases