The arrest of Daily Trust reporters and the siege to its Head Office and regional offices by the military will be resolved via dialogue, Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has said. He also warned that the media must strike a balance between the constitutionally-guaranteed freedom to receive and impart information and national security stressing that FG is not about to gag the press. Alhaji Mohammed stated this during a press conference with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday. He said Nigerian media does not need any lecture on the issue, considering its indispensable role in the emergence of Nigeria as an independent nation and the enthronement of democratic government. “The military has issued a statement to explain their action concerning the presence of troops in the offices of the Daily Trust in Maiduguri and Abuja. It said classified military information was divulged and that the development puts troops in clear and present danger. That is a very serious issue. I want to use this opportunity to appeal to the media to exercise greater restraint in their reporting on the insurgency in the North East. Lest we are misunderstood, we are not about to gag the press, and there is no clampdown as some people, seeking to feed on the issue, have claimed. But the media must exercise restraint and show more responsibility in reporting the insurgency. If I may ask, what is so compelling in pushing a report that compromises national security? What is so compelling in publishing a report that puts our troops in harm’s way?” he queried. The minister, who called for overall support for the military, said recent developments and activities of a section of the media and some opposition political parties are demoralizing the military and strengthening the insurgents. “Without seeking or waiting for official clarification, outrageous casualty figures are prominently reported. Without consideration for national security, military plans are recklessly revealed. Not even in the United States, the bastion of democracy, does this happen” he stated. “Some opposition political parties have needlessly pilloried the military, under the guise of criticising the Federal Government over the war against terror. Their actions amount to dancing on the graves of the men and women in uniform who have made the supreme sacrifice so that you and I can be safe and secure. The military is not a political institution and must not be politicized” he said.  Daily Trust  undermining national security – Army Why Army invaded Daily Trust offices Army under fire for invading Daily Trust