Traders, under the aegies of Nigerian Traders For PMB (NTFPMB), have promised to mobilise their households, neighbours, and friends to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari. They made the promise in a statement issued on Friday in Abuja by the national coordinator of the group, Prince Paul Ikonne, at the end of the NTFPMB leadership meeting held in Abuja on Thursday. Ikonne said traders were reminded that based on the achievements of Buhari ranging from road infrastructure, security of life and property and more especially the Trader Moni initiative among many others, there is need for the president to be re-elected for the second term in order to consolidate on his achievements. “PMB is a trader friendly president and as such traders will do everything within the law to mobilise support across board in order to exceed the 10 million votes they promised the president,” Ikonne said. Ikonne added that “Nigerians know that the fight against corruption is something that the president is passionate about. We therefore warn politicians not to play politics with the fight against corruption. “We also call on the elder statesman, former president Olusegun Obasanjo, to guard his utterances as an elder and lead by example, by standing by his words at all times as we find it difficult to comprehend the position of the former president concerning the well-being of Nigerians. “Having told Nigerians consistently how well he knows Atiku and why Nigerians should not trust Atiku, why this dance in the market place? We therefore urge former President Olusegun Aremu Obasanjo to please speak so that we can listen. “Nigerians have decided whom to vote and no amount of dancing in the market can change it. So, we urge all Nigerians to stick with President Buhari so that come February 16th, the world will know that Nigerians have taken a stand.” 2019: Igbos group begins Buhari’s re-election campaign …Ndigbo group plans mega rally for Buhari God has preserved Buhari to rescue Nigeria - Ndigbo group