Governor Mohammed Umaru Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa State has said that President Muhammadu Buhari does not need to campaign because of what he has done for his state and the North East region. Governor Bindow said this, yesterday, in Yola at the 2019 flag-off campaign of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) where some defectors were received, including 11 governorship candidates that signed a memorandum of understanding to submit their campaign structures to the governor. The governor appealed to voters in his home state to vote for President Buhari and the party’s National Assembly candidates so that he (Buhari) would get federal lawmakers that would assist him to develop the country. “For Buhari, we don’t even need to campaign because of what he has done for us in Adamawa and the North East. If you elect somebody, you don’t need to ask what he has done. You need to see it on ground. “When we return, we will continue what we have started doing in the state,” the governor  said. The Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (APCO) and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said the ruling party would beat the opposition mercilessly because the 2019 election is a comparison between light and darkness. Amaechi said the PDP must not be allowed to return in 2019 to deplete the treasury again despite their apology to Nigerians, stressing that the PDP cannot change. He assured the people of Adamawa of the commitment of the Federal Government to ensure that rail line passed through every state capital, including Yola. The APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, warned Nigerians that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, would sell major assets and crash the Nigerian economy if elected in 2019. Oshiomhole said Atiku and his party had a history of selling away Nigeria’s precious assets, including the Nigeria Airways and electricity companies. He noted that the sale of the electricity distribution companies worsened power supply until the recent improvement being witnessed under the APC government. “We will not allow thieves to clinch back power and destroy the country again,” the APC national chairman also said. “If he sells the NNPC, where is the country going to get money for infrastructure and other development projects?”, he asked. Oshiomhole had earlier paid a courtesy visit to the Lamido of Adamawa, Alhaji Barkindo Aliyu Mustapha, at his palace in company of other members of the National Working Committee (NWC), the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the Director General of the APCO and several other National Assembly members. One of the defectors and a former key chieftain of the PDP, Sen. Paul Wampana, urged votes for President Buhari and Governor Bindow, saying he had decided to spend the last part of his political life in the APC. Atiku''s Defection: I am in APC for life – Bindow As Aisha Buhari’s brother eyes Bindow’s seat Bindow deserves second term – Atiku