The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) is set to host private sector interaction with governorship candidates in Lagos State. The interaction, according to a statement from LCCI, is aimed at providing a platform to the governorship candidates to discuss their manifestoes and programmes for private sector development in the state, the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria. The event is scheduled to hold on Friday January 11, 2019 at the LCCI Conference and Exhibition Centre, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. Muda Yusuf, Director General of LCCI said: “The economy of Lagos is strategic to the national economy, since Lagos is the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria. The economic and business agenda of the governorship candidates are therefore of strategic importance to investors not just in Lagos, but in the whole country. “It is therefore important for private sector stakeholders in Lagos to have an insight into the thinking of the candidates on the trajectory for the Lagos economy.” Yusuf stressed that, “the business community cannot continue to be passive in the political and electoral process. The reality is that the quality of economic policies is impacted by the quality of political governance. “It is the economic policies that determine the prosperity or otherwise of our businesses. Hence our participation at this point in time. “It is the economic policies that will determine how equitable the society will be and the capacity of the economy to create jobs. It is the social and economic policies that will determine the degree of social justice that we experience as a people. For these and other reasons, we need to play a more active role in influencing the choice of political leaders at all levels of government,” he stated. Yusuf also emphasized that “We need a political leadership that will build institutions and promote policies that are supportive of investment. We need to position the private sector as a true engine of growth. We need to develop an economy that rewards hard work, creativity, innovation, wealth creation and entrepreneurship. “We need to do away with structures and polices that allow rent-seeking opportunities to flourish. These are the kinds of political and economic environments that investors desire.”