National Chairman of the Action Alliance (AA), Obidichie Udeze, said that the party will deliver one million votes to President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 16 Presidential election. Udeze said that the AA is ready to takeover Imo state and also give President Buhari a landslide victory. Udeze, who spoke at the presentation at the party’s governorship campaign flag off at the Dan Anyiam Stadium in Imo State, said that the party adopted President Buhari because he is a trustworthy leader who means well for the country. President Muhammadu Buhari was represented by Nasiru Buhari. The governorship candidate of the party, Uche Nwosu, while addressing the crowd, said that he is set to be the youngest governor in Nigeria, stressing that he relied on the massive support of the people of the state to achieve this goal. He said, “I am sure of victory because of the support of the masses and I will be youngest governor in Nigeria by May 29”. He added that his youthfulness and wealth of experience stood him out among other candidates, who he said belong to the old order of politicians. He said, “I am running with those who are old enough to be my father but my appeal to them is to leave the stage for the youths and take their deserved rest, while we harness the potentials of our youths to make our state great”. Nwosu reassured Imo that his administration will consolidate on the gains recorded by the current administration in the areas of education and healthcare, adding, “I will not only sustain the free education programme of the current administration, but I will improve on what is on ground. The same goes for the health sector, where I will provide the needed infrastructure and make healthcare free for children between the ages one to seven years, as well as people above 70 years. “I have come today to share the history of my life with you. I was not born a son in-law to the governor, it was a privilege I got as a result of the Grace of God, I had to hawk pure water under the sun, a condition I went through because of where I found myself but today I am standing before you as a successful man and if I can succeed you too can. You thee youths are the bridge that will take me to the Government House. “I will return the youths to agriculture, where they will become employers of labour, no more will our youths roam the streets without job. I am the only candidate that has clear and workable plan to empower our youths, I have done it when I was not a governor, I will do more for our youths and women when I become the governor. My ambition is a collective ambition of all Imo people and my victory is the victory of the masses”. He said that he left the All Progressives Congress (APC), where he had hoped to contest the governorship ticket, Nwosu because of the injustice meted out to him by the National leadership of the party He said, “We brought APC to Imo state when nobody knew that President Buhari will win the 2015 election, we were called all sorts of name but today we have left the party because of injustice but that has not affected our support for President Buhari, the crowd you see today shows that we will deliver him in Imo State”. Several interest groups and political parties pledged their support for the AA candidate, who they described as detribalized and accommodating. The Chairman of the Non-Indigene Association, Prince Udoga, said that the non indigenes in the state have adopted Nwosu as their governorship candidate and would vote for him enmasse. Imo guber: Nwosu formally defects to Action Alliance, expresses confidence of victory Uche Nwosu is APC in spirit and AA in dressing, says Okorocha 2019: Nobody can stop my support for Buhari, says Nwosu