The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has reiterated its call on Nigerians to ensure that candidates that should be elected at all levels must be those that can pass integrity test and adjudged to have been above board in positions of responsibility they held in the past. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement issued, yesterday, to felicitate with Nigerians as they welcomed the year 2019, called on Nigerians to look forward to the New Year with great optimism. He urged the people to be positive as President Muhammadu Buhari led the charge to establish the Nigeria of their dreams. Issa-Onilu said the forthcoming general elections provide a great opportunity to consolidate on the progress made together as a country under the APC administration. He said the ‘Next Level’ campaign provide a clear roadmap to further deliver the APC promises and the Change Agenda that largely harps on fighting corruption, improving the economy and tackling insecurity. He also expressed the party’s commitment to good governance and participatory democracy which allowed for peaceful, free, fair, credible and transparent elections. The APC spokesman urged all to kick against what he called “unpatriotic practices such as hate campaign, spurious and unsubstantiated allegations and deliberate inciting statements being directed at critical state institutions and public officials by the desperate leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” He said as a progressive party, the APC remained committed to deepening internal party democracy, unity and cohesion to provide a strong and united political platform to ensure the success of the Change Agenda at the federal, state and local levels. “On this joyous occasion, let us reflect on the tremendous progress we have made as a nation in the last three and half years,” he said. “The significant leap towards recovering our country from the abyss would become obvious when we look back at the precarious state our country was in 2015 due to the preceding 16 years of irresponsible leadership,” he added.