A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano state, Engr. Bello Sani Gwarzo, has decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Decamping along with Gwarzo were all his political structures from the 44 local governments of the state. In the same vein, about 250 political groups in the state have merged with the One to Tell Ten Buhari Support Group to ensure President Buhari’s victory in the forthcoming presidential election slated for February 16, 2019. In a grand reception to receive the decamped members, the decampees declared total loyalty and commitment to work under the One 2 Tell 10 Buhari Support Group with a view to ensuring the success of President Buhari. Speaking at the occasion, the Director General of the Engr. Bello Sani Gwarzo Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Mika’ilu Koki, said for three consecutive terms, their boss had been aspiring for the Kano Governorship position but observed that the platform was not friendly, hence their decision to decamp to APC. Alhaji Koki lamented that their former party, PDP, was not in any way interested in addressing the plight of the common man as evident by its retrogressive policies occasioned by poor governance which had retarded the development of the country. However, he said that barely three years of APC administration under Buhari, the country had witnessed a steady national growth and economic stability, which is an indication of good governance and purposeful leadership that attracted the need for him to have a second term in order for Nigerians to continue consolidating the gains of democracy. While welcoming the decamped members, Director General of the One 2 Tell 10 Buhari Support Group, Dr Abdullahi Baffa Bichi, congratulated them. Dr. Bichi said, “President Buhari is the much awaited messiah that we have been yearning for. Those opposing and or sabotaging Buhari are ingrate and sadists whose agenda is to destabilize the country.” He said Buhari’s concern was to bailout Nigeria out of the doldrums, to make life comfortable for every Nigerian. This, he however said could only be feasible with the support of the electorates. Dr Bichi who is also the executive secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund, said Nigeria at this crucial time needs the like Buhari to fight corruption and take Nigeria to the next level of advanced economy. He said, “We are all living witness to the improved security in our land, massive improvement in the area of power generation; improved infrastructural development through road construction, rail lines, poverty alleviation scheme, improved agricultural activities, sound economic policies and many more. “Therefore, a vote for Buhari to the NEXT level is a vote for nation building towards an improved life expectancy.” Many hurdles before Kwankwaso in 2019 How Kebbi PDP failed to produce guber candidate Postponement, money working in PDP’s favour in Kano