Concerns over violence, before, during and after this year’s general elections appeared to have been doused following the signing of a peace accord convened by the National Peace Committee under the chairmanship of a former head of state, Abdulsalami Abubakar on December 11 last year. But as electioneering campaigns intensify, the sound-bites coming from the political actors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition political parties indicate that there is trouble in the air. Amid rising concerns over the conduct of political actors as campaigns for the general elections intensify, the convener of the National Peace Committee (NPC) and Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, said it was left for the political parties, presidential contestants and other candidates to act within the law and spirit of the National Peace Pact. Speaking against the backdrop of fears over violence, Kukah told Daily Trust on Sunday via telephone that the committee had committed the contenders to put the nation first, adding that they would not be doing the work of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and others. Kukah disclosed that a second peace accord would be signed by the presidential candidates. He added that while the focus of first peace accord was on the conduct of politicians during campaigns, the second would be on acceptance of the poll’s result if the election is free, fair and credible. President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the ruling APC, had signed the “Abuja Accord, 2018” alongside other political parties’ candidates. Although the presidential candidate of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and that of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili were absent at the occasion, they later took turns and endorsed the pact. Describing the pact as a crowning moment for the consolidation of peace efforts so far made towards the forthcoming general elections, General Abubakar called for code of conducts by all political parties to promote consultations, inclusiveness and transparency of the electoral process. President Buhari had, while signing the pact, described it as very important for a peaceful political process, saying, “The conduct of our elections has been consistently marred by violence caused by the conduct of most sections of the political class and their supporters. But there are encouraging signs that we are learning to embrace the responsibilities expected of us. “We are here to commit ourselves, as key actors in the political process, party leaders and presidential candidates, to peaceful and credible conduct of the process. We, the candidates pledge to uphold the highest standard of conducts and encourage our teeming supporters to do same. “I wish to call on the INEC and all arms of security agencies to put the nation first in their conduct. The world is watching us and the task of building or institutionalising trust in our political system and institution is fundamental to the growth and development of our country.” But no sooner was the peace pact signed than political actors began to engage one another in acerbic exchanges. For instance, when they later took turns to endorse the peace agreement, both Atiku and Ezekwesili took a swipe at President Buhari over the 2018 Electoral Act. While Atiku said Buhari’s failure to sign the Act cast doubts on his sincerity towards free and credible elections, Ezekwesili accused him of taking contradictory positions on credible elections, saying he should not practise political corruption by using his exalted office as president to further his own interest as a candidate. The five-point accord commits the candidates to “run issue-based campaigns at national, state and local government levels, refrain from making public statements, pronouncements, declarations or speeches that have the capacity to incite any form of violence, before, during and after the elections. It further asked the candidates to “commit themselves and political parties to the monitoring and adherence to the accord by a National Peace Committee made up of respected statesmen and women, traditional and religious leaders.” The pact also tasked the candidates to “support all the institutions of government, including the INEC and security agencies to act and be seen to act with impartiality.” Finally, it commits them to “forcefully and publicly speak out against provocative utterances and oppose all acts of electoral violence, whether perpetrated by supporters or opponents.” But less than a week after signing the peace pack, the ruling APC and the opposition PDP engaged in war of words over the readiness of both parties for the 2019 general elections. The PDP had alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari and his party were plotting with the INEC to rig the elections. The APC, however, denied the allegation and accused the PDP of contacting some Russian agents in a bid to hack INEC’s server during the elections. The national publicity secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, had reportedly warned that there would be dire consequences if the election was rigged. He said: “The whole world has seen that the only reason President Buhari refused to sign the Electoral Bill is because he knows that there is no way he can win in a peaceful, credible, free and fair election. His only hope in contesting the election is getting the INEC and security forces to assist him and the APC to rig. For PDP, our presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar is ready for the election. “The Act we are using now was created by the PDP. They created a law and they are now afraid to use it. That does not sound right. The PDP is playing out what they designed in Dubai. They started with the Labour strike on minimum wage in order to cause problems in the country, but it did not work; they brought Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike; it did not work, and then, they tried to instigate fuel scarcity, which also did not work”, the APC reportedly stated. The brickbat between the APC and opposition parties took another dimension following allegations of plot to use Boko Haram insurgents and bandits to scuttle the general elections. This followed the recent hint by the Federal Government that it was in possession of intelligent information indicating that plans have been hatched by opposition elements to truncate the general elections by instigating violence across the country. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Muhammed said at a press conference that the government noted that having seen the soaring popularity of the current administration, the opposition was bent on truncating the elections with the sole aim of pushing for an interim government. “Having realised that their fortunes have dwindled badly ahead of the polls, the desperate opposition is orchestrating widespread violence, with a view to truncating the elections, thus triggering a constitutional crisis that could snowball into the establishment of an interim government. “Before you accuse the government of crying wolf, let me say that we have credible intelligence that armed bandits and Boko Haram insurgents have been mobilised to engage in massive attacks and other acts of violence in several states across the country, including Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Benue, Kano, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara,’’ the minister said. He specifically said that the Benue State-based armed criminal group, led by Terwase Akwaza, also known as Gana, had been commissioned to strike soft targets in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states; while in Kano State, a group of notorious miscreants had been mobilised by some prominent opposition leaders to provoke massive chaos, before, during and after the elections. “There is also an international dimension to the evil plan. Some armed mercenaries from Niger Republic have been contracted to attack top government functionaries, including state governors across the North-West between now and during the elections,’’ Mohammed said. But in a swift response, PDP’s director of media and publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan, told a press conference that the allegations by the Federal Government had brought to light, the desperation of the APC ahead of the general elections. Maintaining that the APC had already displayed a penchant for violence with the outcome of its violent primaries, Ologbondiyan said: “The PDP has noted the address by the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, that some groups are being mobilised to stage violent attacks in various parts of our country. “We have noted the detailing of awareness of the said plots by Alhaji Mohammed, which exposes manifest complicity at very high level. In the light of this and the already displayed desperation by the APC ahead of the general elections, the PDP calls on Nigerians to hold President Buhari directly responsible for any escalation of violence in our nation. “It is imperative to state that the PDP finds the claims of Alhaji Mohammed irresponsible and ludicrous. It is just a measure for building the ground for framing up and arresting leading members of the opposition as he has just confirmed our concerns. “Severally, we have alerted the nation that the APC and the Buhari presidency, having come to the reality of their imminent and disgraceful loss at the polls, have embarked on a strategy to foment crisis in our dear nation and blame the opposition,” The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) also described the Federal Government’s accusation as outrageous and laughable, accusing the presidency of plotting to frame opposition leaders with spurious allegations. The CUPP spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere said: “The fear of defeat has made the Buhari government to be running from pillar to post and throwing baseless allegations with no facts to substantiate, all in a bid to frame the opposition. Let it be known that the opposition coalition candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will crack Buhari like cracker biscuits come February 16, 2019 and no amount of fake news or stupid accusation of sponsoring bandits can stop that.” Aside the diatribes being exchanged by the APC and the opposition parties, analysts are also worried by the spate of violence that has characterised electioneering campaigns so far. To some analysts, the violence that engulfed the APC governorship rally on January 8 is a foretaste of what lies ahead of the February general elections. During a rally in Lagos, rival National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) members attacked one another and innocent party supporters as the APC candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, inaugurated his campaign in Lagos. In the ensuing turmoil, thugs unleashed violence on innocent people, dispossessing them of their phones, money and other personal effects. In all, three persons reportedly died in the mayhem, with no fewer than nine others reportedly stabbed, including two journalists who were seriously injured. In Kwara, the violence cuts across the two major parties – APC and the PDP. Their supporters reportedly attacked one another recently in Ilorin, the state capital. The APC governorship candidate, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq had a close shave with death when thugs fired indiscriminately during the party’s rally. AbdulRazaq claimed that two of his supporters died in the shootings. At the same time, rival party supporters reportedly attacked the neighborhood of Senate President Bukola Saraki in the city, inflicting injuries on residents. In Enugu last December, the campaign office of a factional APC governorship candidate was attacked, during which two buses were torched and three others vandalised. On January 13, the Enugu State police command reported that three space vehicles and three medium sized buses belonging to the PDP were set ablaze in the state capital. Similarly, three persons were reportedly killed in Wukari after thugs were said to have attacked the campaign team of the Taraba State APC governorship candidate, Sani Abubakar Danladi, last week. Earlier in May, rival APC hoodlums reportedly sacked a Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt, which was about to deliver its ruling in a suit on which faction was the authentic one. In the process, two deaths were recorded. In Ebonyi State, one death was recorded during the APC primaries for the House of Representatives for the Ikwo/Ezza South constituency in October 2018. Last week, candidates of the APC in Rivers said there would be no national, state and governorship elections in the state if the INEC failed to relist them. Henry Odili, APC candidate for Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni-Ahoada/West federal constituency, who made this known at a news conference organised by the delisted APC candidates in Port Harcourt, said there was no court order stopping the primary elections that produced them as candidates. He alleged that Governor Nyesom Wike and the PDP had boasted that the APC would not have candidates in Rivers before the state High Court gave the judgement that nullified the primary elections. “The electoral law was crafted such that the courts will not interfere with the electoral process, but the courts in Rivers have willfully violated this. And this is affecting the rights of Rivers people to freely choose their leaders and representatives,” he said. While calling on the INEC to, with immediate effect, render an apology to the APC and Rivers people, and also relist the party’s candidates in the state for the general elections, Odili said: “We demand that the INEC should give the same enabling time and environment for political campaigns to the APC in Rivers as they have given to the PDP and other parties. “Should the INEC fail to meet our demands, there will be no National, Assembly and governorship elections in Rivers State. This is our position until all the cases pending before various courts have gone through to the apex court for final decision and our rights to fair hearing guaranteed.” The convener of the National Peace Committee (NPC) and Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, said it was left for the political parties, presidential contestants and other candidates to act within the law and spirit of the National Peace Pact. He said, “We have played our part and it is left for the parties that signed the agreement to be committed to the interest of Nigeria.’’ Prior to the December historic agreement by presidential candidates in Abuja, Kukah had said the parties resolved to adopt the same principles that guided the very successful 2015 elections as a template for ensuring that all stakeholders commit themselves to peaceful election in 2019. In separate interviews, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) and the Good Governance Team (GGT), also raised concerns over the rising tensions in the country. Director of the CDD, Idayat Hassan, said it was sad that the peace agreement was not adhered to. Hassan said, “This shows the stiff nature of the competition and the inability to manage crowd. But as you may have observed, US and UK governments have already threatened visa ban on any instigator of violence. And as civil society we are going to ensure that any culpable candidate, party leaders and others are held accountable. The idea that they can destroy the country and run away with their family is no longer acceptable.’’ The convener of GGT, Mr. Tunde Salmon, said the fear of political violence was not allayed by mere signing of peace accord by politicians at the national level if efforts are not targeted at the sub-national and grassroots levels, where the specter of electoral violence is fast becoming a reality. According to him, these are the locations recording upsurge in the reported incidents of violence and other illiberal conducts like disruption of campaigns rallies, destruction of campaigns materials like billboards, posers and hate speech. “Going forward, the National Peace Accord needs to cascade down to sub-national levels where the concern of violence is very real. In fact, between December when the accord was signed and now (few weeks to the first set of polls), many states hitherto not on radar of possible violence have moved up into red light,” Salman said. But the chairman of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the PDP, Senator Walid Jibrin believes that the verbal attacks between the Federal Government and the PDP over alleged violent attack during the general elections will not alter the resolve of Nigerians to participate in the voting process. Jibrin said arguments between or among political parties were normal in a political setting, but cautioned that political actors should be committed to ensuring a peaceful process like that of 2015. “The campaigns should be issue-based. We are all witnesses to the previous elections, which were peaceful, and we must be committed to ensuring that the 2019 elections do not go the other way. “From what is happening now, I don’t think there would be a problem because we in the PDP are committed to issue-based campaigns. I think the statement that there would be an attack during elections is hearsay and propaganda. The PDP is not in government, so it cannot even cause trouble. “The government of the day has all the ingredients to cause trouble. They have the Army and the Police, but we don’t have that. So they are only crying because of election fever,’’ he said. The national publicity secretary of the ruling party, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said he would not comment on the issue raised by the minister of information since he was not privy to the information. “You know there is no way I can represent his intention. That question is better directed at the minister. He may have his reasons for it. In reference to what you said, I don’t want to comment on it because I don’t know what information he has and what would have been his response. There is no way I can reason for him,” Issa-Onilu said. But a chieftain of the APC and the director-general of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu, said the coming election would be devoid of any major crisis since ethnic and religious cards were not involved in the ongoing campaigns. “My simple position is that the two frontrunners are Fulani Muslim brothers. Atiku Abubakar and Muhammadu Buhari are Fulani. It means that entering into the elections, the issue of ethnicity and tribe will not play any role. Since the ethnic and religious cards have been cancelled, I don’t think there would be much crisis as being postulated,” he said. 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord Ganduje, 28 guber candidates commit to peaceful elections in Kano PDP drags Oshiomhole to Abdulsalami peace c'ttee