President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday,  told the European Union Observer Mission (EOM) to Nigeria’s elections, that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will deliver on its mandate of a credible poll. Receiving the EOM led by the Chief Observer and member of the European Parliament, Maria Arena, at the State House, the president said he had listened, earlier in the day, to the INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, when he briefed the National Council of State. “I am happy and impressed with the briefing he gave. I hope that the confidence he exuded and the intellect he brought to bear on the report will be justified at the end of the day,” he said. The president told the EU delegation that Nigeria had grown its electoral system incrementally, getting better year after year. “Having participated in elections four times in the past, I would say that since 2015, technology has helped the credibility of our elections,” he said. President Buhari said Nigeria, with over 250 ethno-cultural groups across religions and tribes, with each group canvassing for identity and primacy in the affairs of the nation, “patriotism demands that we identify the nation’s best interest and go with it.” He stressed that the governing APC administration had the good sense of identifying national interest including security, peace and stability, improved economy, jobs creation and the campaign against corruption, noting that the party was not wrong in 2015, and could not be wrong going into election this year with the same issues in its campaigns. The EOM team, accompanied by Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, Head, European Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, said  the EU had observed every election in Nigeria since 1999, and had come again following an invitation by INEC. The delegation promised impartiality and neutrality in the monitoring of the elections. We’r committed to credible polls, FG tells EU observers Did EU observers favour Buhari over Jonathan in 2015 polls? 2015 polls: We didn’t favour Buhari – EU observers