The leadership of the Senate slated a meeting for last night over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Walter Onnoghen by President Muhammadu Buhari, Daily Trust on Sunday learnt. It was also gathered that the Senate may reconvene this week to consider the suspension. Senators had adjourned their sitting to February 19, which will be three days after the presidential and National Assembly elections. But they may reconvene Tuesday over Onnoghen’s suspension, it was learnt. Buhari had on Friday suspended Onnoghen based on the recommendation of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) until the final determination of the cases against the CJN. The president subsequently swore in Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed as acting CJN. Since the suspension, there have been mixed reactions over the matter. A senator told Daily Trust on Sunday yesterday that there were moves by some senators for the Senate to reconvene and consider the matter as they deemed the suspension as a breach of the constitution. As a result of that, the senator said the leadership of the Senate fixed a meeting for last (Saturday) night to decide on whether to reconvene or not. However, the senator said that the Senate leadership was treading softly on the matter as it could divide senators along party and regional lines. “They’re planning to reconvene. But you know they have to be careful, because the issue can divide the Senate. They’re just at consultative level; they’re contemplating doing that. “There are some that are pushing for the Senate to reconvene. But they don’t know the inner workings of the Senate. So, the leaders of the Senate are also afraid, because they know that they’re on a time bomb. Everybody is trying to finish well. They’re still consulting,” the senator, an APC member said. Asked if the APC senators would support any move against the suspension, the senator, who did not want to be named, said: “That’s what I’m telling you. It will polarise the Senate along party, regional and tribal lines. “That’s what’s happening, and the leadership is afraid. As we speak, the leadership will meet this night on the issue. But there’s no final decision yet on reconvening.” Our correspondent reports that the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) had in a statement called on the National Assembly to reconvene and commence an impeachment process against Buhari over Onnoghen’s suspension. Pressure mounts on Saraki  to reconvene N/Assembly All Eyes On Justice Onnoghen N/Assembly leaders meet today over election budget