Meat processing is being carried in an unhygienic condition at the Gombe main abattoir following the collapse of its facilities, North East Trust reports. Investigations revealed that many of the facilities installed in the 10-year-old abattoir to ensure highest standard in processing of meat have collapsed. When North East Trust visited the abattoir located behind the Gombe Timber market, it was observed animals are being slaughtered and the meat being processed on the bare floor. Similarly the premises has been taken over by weeds while strong foul odour has engulfed the premises as a result of the dumping of animal and other wastes within the premises. Our correspondent observed that the single borehole at the facility does not provide enough water to the butchers. Also the abattoir suffers from epileptic power supply and lack of cold store room to preserve the meat before conveying it to the markets. In addition, due to lack of effective means of transportation, the processed meat is being conveyed to various locations across the state capital on motorcycles and tricycles. However, it was observed that health personnel are always on the ground to check the health status of the animals and ensure that they are safe for human consumption before they are slaughtered. The Chairman of the National Union of Butchers Association, Gombe State chapter, Alhaji Kabir Bala, appealed for urgent government intervention to save people from possible epidemic. Bala said the butchers spent an average of N6,000 daily to fuel the generator that pumps water from the borehole due to erratic power supply at the abattoir. “The poor condition of the abattoir has greatly affected inflow of revenue we are remitting to the state government,” he said. He said an average of 60 cows were being slaughtered daily at the abattoir. “It depends on the season, but we slaughter at least 60 cows in Gombe daily, when we add that with those slaughtered at other abattoirs across the state, we can get up to 200 cows and over 300 goats and rams,” Bala added. According to him, the abattoir is in dire need equipment to improve and maintain the sanitary condition at the premises. He said: “We want the government to help us revamp this place and provide us with sanitary items to keep the abattoir safe for the benefit of people that work here and members of the public that patronize us.” He said if the abattoirs were overhauled they would generate more revenue for the government. “Nothing in a cow is useless starting from the meat, horn, blood, skins and even the waste.” Further investigations by North East Trust revealed that only Gombe, Funakaye, Kaltungo, Shomgom and Billiri towns have functional abattoirs. It was, however, gathered that three of them were recently built by a member of the House of Representatives from the Kaltungo/Shomgom federal constituency of the state, Hajiya Fatima Binta Bello. The state Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Nomadic Affairs said it was aware of the deplorable situation of the abattoir. The Director of Livestock and Acting Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr David S. Abubakar said the ministry was concerned about the situation and has already captured its rehabilitation in the 2019 budget. “The state government has already made provision for the construction of befitting abattoirs across the state. In fact when we went to the state House of Assembly to defend our 2019 budget, construction of a new abattoir is among the top items in the projects to be executed by the ministry,” he said. Abubakar confirmed that they have received letters of complaint from the leaders of the butchers union, adding that efforts would be made to address the situation by overhauling existing abattoirs and constructing new ones across the state. Benue’s abattoirs in deplorable condition Jalingo abbatoir in bad shape – Investigation Katsina abattoirs in bad shape — investigation