The Wife of the President and leader of the Presidential Campaign team for women and youths, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has advised Nigerian women and youths not to leave the polling booths after voting on the election day but  wait until the votes are counted and recorded. Speaking  at the South-east presidential rally for women and youths held at Dan Anyiam Stadium, Owerri on Saturday,  she said  the APC will take Nigerians to the next level. He urged them to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office. Mrs. Buhari, who was represented by the wife of the Vice-President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, said, “APC is taking us to the next level. The government of President Buhari is working for men, women, youths and children. The government cares for all. Everybody should vote for APC. Nobody should be at home on the day of elections, but should go and vote. “Again, do not vote and go home. Wait until the votes are counted. Nobody should also fight on the day of election. The government of Buhari is interested in the youths. I am proud to be a Nigerian woman because their women are hardworking, beautiful and successful.” Also speaking, Governor Rochas Okorocha, said that  Imo state and by extension the entire South-East region  need Buhari more than any other zone in Nigeria because  Buhari’s victory in 2019 will be of immense value for the Igbo race. He said, “It is for this reason that we therefore urge all of you, the campaigners of Buhari not to waste your time in Imo State. Imo’s victory for Buhari has been signed, sealed and delivered. “Standing here today, is that lonely voice in 2015 who stood for Buhari when no one believed in him. It was still on this same premises that I renamed Mr. President in order to woo the votes of Ndi Igbo. “I named him Okechukwu Buhari Government Ka Oru Ndi Igbo Aka Osusu. At that time, most of the gladiators or those who seek interest now were never there. I provided victory when it was very difficult. “We have equally consulted with other political parties especially those with weak presidential candidates or those with no presidential candidates at all. In Imo State, we have about 47 Political Parties supporting Buhari.” Earlier in her welcome speech, the South-East Director of the Women and Youths of the Presidential Campaign team, Nneoma Nkechi Okorocha, said the women and youths have agreed to vote massively for President Buhari to take Nigerians to the Promise Land, adding that there is no vacancy in Aso Rock. Other APC Stalwarts at the rally include: Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, General Buba Marwa, three Governors’ wives, Mrs. Obaseki (Edo), Nana Shettima (Borno), Zainaba Shinkafi Baguda (Kebbi) and Mrs. Chibuike Amaechi, Chief Uche Nwosu, Chief Uche Ogah, Senator Andy Ubah, Senator Majiri Okadigbo, Mrs. Uloma Akpabio, Chief Hope Uzodinma, and the National Women Leader of APC, Hajia Salamatu Eluma, amongst others. Buhari campaigns for APC guber candidates As Buhari, Jonathan’s wives woo women for spouses 2015 elections: Patience Jonathan on the rampage