Commercial activities were paralysed  in the ancient city of Sokoto as residents on Wednesday thronged the Giginya Memorial Stadium for the presidential campaign of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Daily Trust observed that some of the supporters jumped over the barb wire fence of the stadium which barricaded them from where the podium was sited despite tensed resistance from the combined team of security agents. President Buhari was received at Sultan Abubakar III International Airport by Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and the APC Presidential Campaign Coordinator in charge of the northwest, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko among other chieftains of the party in the state. Overwhelmed by the mammoth crowd, Buhari reassured Nigerians that he would not relent in fighting corruption in the country. “When I came here in 2015, I made these promises; security, economy and to fight corruption and you are living witnesses that we are fulfilling these promises. The President cited the unprecedented crowd that welcomed his campaign team in Borno as a testimony to the fact that they had done well in the area of security. He also said that the country had witnessed bumper harvest in the last two years, signifying that their economic policy was working. On corruption, the President reassured Nigerians that he would not relent in fighting the menace. “I assure you whoever is found wanting would be dealt with accordingly,” he said. While thanking the supporters, he urged the electorate to vote for APC only in the forthcoming elections, saying that they would not betray them. In his remarks, the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole said the people of Sokoto and Nigerians have spoken as everywhere you go was APC. According to Oshiomole, Nigerians would trust Buhari with their mandate because he is truthful, honest and transparent. The former Governor of Lagos state, Ahmed Tinubu, said the ship of the country was moving in the right direction under President Muhammadu Buhari, thus other candidates were afraid of his overwhelming support on the country. Tinubu said farmers had never had it so good and food security was never been assured before now. He added that that youth were now ready to take farming as profession because it was now a lucrative business. In his remarks, the Director General, Buhari Campaign Organization, Rotimi Amaechi, reiterated their commitment to link all the state capitals with rail lines. “We will construct railway from Jibya to Gusau and Gusau to Sokoto then to Kebbi,” he said. On his part, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko said Sokoto was for APC, saying that “we will not let opposition win even a single position in the next elections.” Crowd at APC rally in Kaduna How APC presidential campaign flag-off shook Rivers Polls: Buhari will win despite calumny campaigns - Idi Farouk