The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused President Muhammadu Buhari-led Presidency of “plotting to destabilize and annex the Judiciary ahead of the 2019 general elections.” In a statement signed by Kola Ologbondiyan, the Director, Media & Publicity of PDP Presidential Campaign Organization on Saturday, the party alleged that “the All Progressives Congress (APC) and cabal at the Buhari Presidency are hounding Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen.” It added that the Presidency is “seeking his (CJN) removal so as to cause a constitutional crisis, instil fear in judicial officers and pave way for the foisting of a pliable CJN that will do their bidding on electoral matters.” The statement further read: “This is particularly following allegations that the APC seeks a new CJN that will aid its rigging schemes as well as execute the plot to use the court to detain and put opposition members and outspoken members of Civil Society Organizations out of circulation during the general elections. “This development is a clear recipe for anarchy and a huge crisis that is capable of fracturing our justice system and derails our democracy as it portends a prelude to a total clamp down on institutions of democracy and rule of law in our country. “The PDP therefore urges all Nigerians, the United Nations and all international bodies to unite in the defence of our democracy, especially at this very critical time in our political development. “Moreover, if President Buhari is committed to cleaning up the system as he claims, we challenge him to allow the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, whose tenure has expired and who had also been rejected by Nigerians due to his manifest partisanship, to go. “President Buhari should also ask Amina Zakari to recuse herself from INEC following her rejection by Nigerians over issues of impropriety in her appointment as Chairperson of the Presidential election collation committee. “Furthermore, we challenge Mr. President to also commence plans for the immediate prosecution of members of his campaign organization, including his co-Chairman, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the factional National Chairman of his APC, Adams Oshiomhole over allegations of corruption against them. “Finally, the PDP counsels the APC to note that it has been rejected by Nigerians and as such should end all its actions and schemes that overheat the polity and place our nation on the precipice.” CJN pledges unbiased judiciary ahead 2019 polls PDP alleges plot by SSS to hijack tribunal judgement in Rivers, others Fmr CJN Katsina-Alu dies at 76