Some labour unions and associations in Sokoto State have endorsed the re-election bid of Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal who is the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the forthcoming gubernatorial
election. They described Governor Tambuwal ‘s administration as the most workers- friendly in Sokoto. The endorsement was made at an interactive session held between the Governor and leaders of the unions which include United Labour Congress, ULC, Trade union Congress, TUC, National Union of Pensioners, National Union of Teachers, Medical and health workers Union, National Road Transport Workers, Association of motorcycles
operators. In a remark, Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Sokoto, Comrade Aminu Umar lauded Tambuwal for ensuring prompt payment of workers’ salaries and pensions. “It is on record that the total allocation for the state since inception of this administration is just above N130b, whereas payment of salary and pension has so far gulped over N90b,” he stated. Umar added: “We have about 60,000 workers in the state but the Governor never thought of downsizing like it was done in places like Kaduna and some other State.” He noted that before the emergence of Governor Tambuwal, pensioners were owed up to seven years, “but it is now a thing of the past.” Speaking, the Governor assured that no civil servant would be punished for supporting any political party of his/her choice, noting that the Supreme Court had given civil servants leeway to play politics reasonably, but not to be partisan while still in service. He however advised that any serving civil servant, who is a member of an opposition party in the state, should do it with fear of God and not to destabilize the government. The Governor pledged that the new minimum wage would be fully implemented in the state when passed into law. He also promised that a committee would be set up to look into the grievances of retired health workers at the local government. Pensioners in Sokoto urgeTambuwal to seek re-election in 2019 Despite Paris refund, over 10 states owe salaries, pensions States still owe salaries, allowances in spite of bailout funds - NAN Survey