Alhaji Abdullahi Maiturare Shinkafi is the Zamfara North senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). In this interview, he speaks on APGA’s chances in Zamfara among other issues. Excerpts:  What can you offer differently if elected senator? I decided to contest the elections after a lot of consultations. It was not my intention to enter the race having been in political party administration for a long time. I have been able to study the political terrain of Zamfara State, especially as it concerns the upcoming elections and I am convinced that I have a lot to contribute to rescue my people from bad governance and maladministration which they have been subjected to in the last 18 years or thereabouts. I happen to come from the zone that is mostly affected by the activities of armed bandits; kidnapping has been the order of the day. People are no longer safe in their homes. Human life is now worthless as people are hacked to death on a daily basis. And the leadership of the people in the state seems to be helpless; the governor does not care who lives or dies. All the elected officials in the state believe that the governor who made them what they are will return them back to office. The youths, the aged, women and the children are left unprotected and are always on the run. Today it is kidnapping, the next day it is shooting and armed robbery. There is so much insecurity in the state. So the time has come to bring in people who can speak out and protect the people in that particular senatorial district. What makes you think you have what it takes to tackle these problems? Before you can tackle any problem, you have to find out the cause of the problem, identify the root cause of the problem first before you can proffer a solution. Secondly, as a young man who was born and brought up in that environment, I went to school in one of the most affected local government areas, I was there for about six years for my secondary education. I know all the areas, the corners and the villages, I know the terrain very well, the people know me and I know them and they trust and I know the challenges having interacted with a lot of people in my position as a political party administrator. I have been privileged to interact with many governors, senators, members of the House of Representatives and other high profile people who have provided quality leadership to their people. I have garnered a lot of experience with which to legislate. As a legislator, I cannot promise that I will tar roads or build bridges but I know that I can provide an honest representation in the National Assembly; I can use my office to lobby the security agencies to come to our aid. How then would you assess the APC government in Zamfara State? Based on what is on the ground, the APC government in Zamfara State led by Governor Abdulaziz Yari has failed woefully; the government has failed in all areas as the first responsibility of any responsible government is the protection of the lives and properties of the citizens. You cannot construct roads for animals or corpses, you cannot build schools or hospitals for dead people. What are the chances of your party winning elections in Zamfara State? APGA has been on ground in Zamfara State for many years and our chances are very bright especially with the poor performance of the present APC government. We are very optimistic of winning many seats in 2019. As you are aware, APGA has really worked hard to make it relevant in the state, especially our governorship candidate, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi, who was the National Secretary of APGA for almost 10 years. He has been working very hard but you know the general mentality of wanting to associate with the ruling party people who can take public fund to empower their candidates and rig the elections; but people are becoming more enlightened and politically aware. The youth are becoming more exposed, more enlightened. The social media is also helping in exposing the corrupt government and people are getting to know their rights. So I believe that 2019 is going to be a different kettle of fish because this is the first time two months to the elections the ruling party has no candidate from the state assembly to the National Assembly and even the governorship. So people are beginning to wonder what is happening, the place is so quiet, it’s only the opposition parties that are campaigning. So that clearly shows you that all the activities of politicking are solely funded by the government which is one of the major problems the opposition usually faced; but I think if there is free and fair elections next year, APGA as the number three political party in the country will win all the elections in Zamfara State, from the governorship, National Assembly and most of the state assembly seats. Why have you not considered the PDP in your projections? PDP collapsed into the APC a few months ago, with majority of them who cannot stand being out of governance having been in the system for a long time. They cannot stand the heat, they can no longer cope and majority of them joined the APC. It is just very few of them that are still in PDP and they cannot win any election. So majority of the strong men in PDP have decamped to APC which was what led to their crisis as they were not able to conduct their primaries. All we need is a little push and I am very confident that if not all, we would have a substantial number of the seats available in Zamfara, Insha Allah. 