The Senator representing Central senatorial district of Kogi state at the National Assembly, Ahmed Salau Ogembe, has charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to create a level playing ground for all the political parties in order to have a free, fair and credible 2019 general elections. The Senator also urged the security agents to play their role with impartiality  saying the success of the forthcoming general elections lay on the shoulders of the security agents especially the police. Ogembe, while addressing supporters of the People Democratic Party (PDP) during a tour of the his senatorial district, charged the electoral umpire not to be compromised in the discharge of its duties. “I am optimistic that with the exposure and experience of the new Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, I am sure that things will be done in accordance to the law of the country,” Ogembe noted. While enumerating his performance at the national assembly in the last three years, the lawmaker said he was able to move many bills and motions that had positive impact on the lives of Nigerians. “We have sunk over 60 motorised boreholes, we provided solar street lights, we gave out scholarship to numerous indigent students, we have empowered many youth and women all across the five local government areas that form the district.” The Senator, who said that he was seeking re-election to enable him consolidate on his achievements, noted that education, agriculture and continuous empowerment will be his priority if given the second mandate. Speaking on violence and attack on the opposition parties, Senator Ogembe said “We in the PDP are not perturbed by the attacks and intimidation of the ruling party in the district. “Kogi Central belongs to all of us irrespective of religion and political affiliations, therefore, nobody can dissuade me from pursuing my political aspiration of bringing development to the people of my constituency. “Nobody has the monopoly of violence and we are equal to the task as far as 2019 general election is concerned, but I am appealing to the multitude of my supporters to go about their activities peacefully because PDP is a party that abhor violence”.  Dino clinches Kogi West PDP senatorial ticket Melaye, Aidoko make INEC list as 67 jostle for Kogi senate seats Senators Dino, Aidoko make INEC list as 67 jostle for Kogi's senate seats