The Transparency Advocacy for Development Initiative (TADI) comprising 46 allied and civil society groups has called for stiffer actions against vandals as part of measures to stop sabotaging the efforts of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) to its catchment areas. BEDC is responsible for supplying power to Edo, Delta, Ondo and Ekiti states. The National Convener of the CSOs, Comrade Solomon Adodo, in a statement yesterday in Abuja, said its investigation showed that critical electricity installations in these states had been vandalised, leading to poor power supply. According to him, the activities of vandals in the states had started disrupting the Federal Government’s roadmap for power stability. Adodo said: “We herein advise that all communities should maintain vigilant watch over electricity installations in their respective domains to stall off power facility vandals and saboteurs. “In the same vein we herein call on vandals to desist from their unpatriotic activities particularly in Edo State where the grand plan is to make BEDC appear incompetent and inefficient thus the resort to destruction of BEDC investments. “We sternly warn that any such vandal apprehended will be made to face the full wrath of the law. We will remain as eternally vigilant watch guardians to ensure that DISCOs are kept on their toes to effectively play the role of relaying power to the end-users. “We shall not fold our arms and allow any group of misdirected, self-serving or sinisterly motivated individuals or groups sabotage the efforts of any of the DISCOs.” He urged all customers/consumers of electricity and stakeholders to comply with the prevailing laws by promptly paying for electricity consumed and avoid electricity theft. He also warned against the politicisation of electricity challenge in the affected states, noting that power generation and distribution was a business governed by clearly cut contract terms. Power firm attributes outages in Cross River to vandals IBEDC laments over N2.5bn monthly loss to vandals, unpaid bills Expect uninterrupted power supply soon –Ministers