The Lagos Water Corporation has completed no fewer than 48 water works in the state in its drive to address water shortage. It said the mini water works now jointly produce 87 MGD to complement the major waterworks of Adiyan: 70 MGD, Iju: 45MGD, Ishasi: 4MGD, and Otta Ikosi 4 MGD, arriving at a total of 210 Million Gallons per Day. Group Managing Director/CEO of the corporation, Engr. Muminu Badmus told newsmen in Lagos that the State through the corporation has initiated projects on expansion and upgrading which will effectively and ultimately tackle the problem of water shortage in the state and close water demand gap. This is just as he debunked insinuation in some quarters that the state has privatised water supply. The GMD said, “These projects include the ongoing construction of Adiyan Phase II of 70 million gallons per day (MGD), development of the Igbonla Water Scheme Phase 1 of 100MGD, expected to serve Victoria Island down to Epe corridor. Other proposed schemes include Adiyan Phase III of 70MGD, with 6,295 km network, Ibese Phase I Water Treatment Plant of 50 MGD, and the Yewa/Ishasi Water Scheme to produce 85MGD. “A proposed integrated water supply in Ikorodu and its peri-urbans will be executed to supply 35MGD. This project comprises upgrading Otta-Ikosi from 4MGD to 31MGD; and the rehabilitation of Oke-Ota-Ona Water Plant of 3 MGD, and Lagos road mini waterworks of 2 MGD. This integrated water supply project also includes the construction of 7 booster stations that would enhance production and supply of water to the communities in the axis”. He however debunked report that the recent disruption in water supply in the state was as a result of the recent adoption of Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the state. Badmus said the report attributed to the Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service, Technical and Recreational service Employees (AUPCTRE) that the management of Lagos Water Corporation has adopted PPP initiative was not true. “The Lagos State Government had earlier mentioned in one of its publications that it has not privatized water supply, neither has it awarded water privatization contract to any organization, as no responsible government will jeopardize the interests of the state by not following the due process in its transactions”, the GMD said through a statement by the Public Relations Officer, Anifowoshe Rasaq. While debunking the report, LWC boss explained that the Corporation had earlier published a release on the water situation in Lagos stating that it was as a result of epileptic power supply from Independent Power Plant in Akute which adversely affected water production and supply from the major water works of Adiyan and Iju. He added that with the reconnection to the National Grid, all the affected communities such as Bariga, Lawanson, Ketu, Ojodu, Agboyi, Mile 12 among others, mentioned in the report are presently receiving water supply as part of the commitment of the LWC management on customers’ satisfaction through improved service delivery. Lagos Water blames disruption in supply on leakages Lagos requires 720m gallons of water per day – Ambode Jonathan canvasses $200m loan for Lagos  water, rail  projects