The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has flayed a national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for describing its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as “undemocratic element.” The Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement last night said Atiku was an established democrat and that “the resort to flippancy by Buhari campaigner, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu”, could not distract him. The PPCO said Tinubu, in attacking Atiku state of the nation address, which embodied the concerns, fears and apprehensions of Nigerians over President Muhammadu Buhari’s alleged despotic tendencies, had shown that he had finally turned his back against Nigerians because of pecuniary interests. “We invite Nigerians to note that all the accusations of undemocratic actions alluded to by Asiwaju Tinubu against Atiku Abubakar did not come under Atiku Abubakar’s purview of decision or his sphere of control while in office as the vice president of Nigeria. “If anything, Atiku Abubakar was in charge of the economy during the period and every Nigerian can testify that, within that time, our economy thrived to be one of the fastest growing in the world and the purchasing power of citizens was much higher than what obtains today. Tinubu in a 1665-word reply to Atiku said the former VP lacked the moral right to accuse Buhari of planning to rig the 2019 elections when he (Atiku) had allegedly confessed to have rigged elections in five South-West states for his former boss, President Olusegun Obasanjo. In the reply personally signed by him, Tinubu described Atiku’s state-of-the nation address as a “disregard for the truth and patent misrepresentations”, adding, “It will go down in political history as a classic of self-incrimination.” According to Tinubu, “Atiku thinks the piece exalts him. Instead it evinces his penchant for wilful misstatement that makes him unfit for the office he now seeks and has always coveted.” He noted that it was a false claim for Atiku to say he dedicated his life to the defence of democracy, adding he joined his former boss to withhold the funds of Lagos state despite many court orders.  Tinubu to Atiku: You can strategize in jungle, you're going nowhere You’re going nowhere, Tinubu tells Atiku PDP cautions Tinubu over comment on Atiku