Thousands of supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State yesterday prevented the President from speaking, forcing him to leave the Rwang Pam Stadium at 4:18pm. President Buhari had arrived the Rwang Pam Stadium to a huge crowd at 3:27pm. The police attempted to control the crowd using tasers but could not. Upon arrival, the President was forced to sit in his vehicle for almost 20 minutes from where he watched youths take over the two podium, shouting “sai Baba” while others climbed the roof top of vehicles in his entourage in an attempt to catch a glimpse of him. The President, who was accompanied by Governor Simon Bako Lalong; the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), comrade Adams Oshiomhole; his campaign Director General, Rotimi Amaechi and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, could only alight from his vehicle when a deployment of soldiers temporarily pushed back the crowd. However, almost an hour after he was seated, the programme could not commence and the President could only wave at his supporters who were carrying brooms and chanting praise songs. Our correspondent reports that microphones and other equipment were disconnected by the crowd, making it impossible for any public address. By 4:18pm, the President was ushered out of the stadium through a back door and was swiftly followed by the crowd. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that before the president’s arrival, the crowd had broken through a barrier when they mistook the arrival of certain dignitaries for the President. The Plateau State Police Command had earlier stated that it deployed 2,050 police officers for the visit, yet our correspondent observed that the police and additional deployment of soldiers could not control the large crowd. Meanwhile, President Buhari thanked the people of Plateau State for their support, while urging his supporters to allow his campaign programmes run as planned as he visits other areas. A statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in Jos thanked people of the state for the large turnout but also sued for greater restraint from supporters and pleaded that they allow the campaign programme run as planned, since it is also an opportunity for the president to give a stewardship report. Adesina quoted the President as saying, “We have been serving you for about four years, we want another four years mandate from you, it is needful for you to allow us give you a report. You deserve it.” Crowd overwhelms security agents as Buhari visits Jos Crowds pack stadium as Lalong starts reelection campaign We are only waiting to swear in President Buhari -Lalong