Two ward leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Shendam local government area of Plateau state have died in a ghastly car accident as they were returning from last Saturday’s campaign rally of the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar in Jos. Daily Trust gathered that the 18-seater bus in which they were travelling from Jos to Shendam ran into the bush few kilometres to their destination. The victims include the Torshi ward Chairman, Mr Donatus Morkwap, and the women leader of Shendam, Mrs Christy Yelick Dungtou – both members of the PDP. The driver however survived, but sustained minor injuries along with other party members in the vehicle. Confirming the incident, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, John Akans, said that it was unfortunate for such an accident to occur after a successful presidential campaign rally which saw hundreds of thousands of supporters from across the state. Akans said their burial will hold this Friday adding that all the party officials in the state and beyond would be there to sympathize with the families of the deceased. Meanwhile, the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, has condoled with families of the deceased and offered immediate support to those hospitalised. In a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, Atiku expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the deceased  and prays for the speedy recovery of those still in hospital. “We have received with sadness report of the loss of Mrs Christy Yelick Dungtou and Mr Donatus Morkwap, members of one of our support groups in a road accident on their way to Shendam after the Jos rally of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar on Saturday. Mrs Dungtou died at the scene of the accident while Morkwap passed away as he was being conveyed to General Hospital, Barkin-Ladi. “Mr Kwalmi Julius, one of the injured whose condition is critical is receiving treatment at the Plateau Hospital, Jos while the other two have been referred to Shendam. “The Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign is in liaison with an official of the support group who has confirmed that the corpse of the deceased have been deposited at the mortuary in Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau State. “The former Vice President has directed his campaign organisation to spare no resource in ensuring that those still in hospital receive the best of medical care. He has also instructed that the Campaign takes care of the burial cost of the deceased. “The PDP presidential candidate acknowledges the great efforts and sacrifices of thousands of his support groups and millions of their members in our avowed commitment to ‘Get Nigeria Working Again’ for the good of all and assures that their sacrifices will not be in vain,” the statement read. Jos rally:  Atiku mourns crash victims, orders support for injured 2015: Jonathan’s plot to ‘capture’ opposition states What’s there  for Atiku in PDP?