The Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex A. Okoh, has tasked Ocean & Cargo Terminal Services Limited – the Concessionaire of Terminal ‘B’ Warri Old Port – to focus on increased efficiency, improved service delivery and  reduction in the cost of shipping & clearing of goods. A statement by the spokesperson for the BPE, Amina Tukur Othman, said the signing ceremony for the Concession of the Port between the Concessionaire and the Bureau was witnessed by critical stakeholders including the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) in Abuja on Tuesday. Okoh reminded Ocean & Cargo Terminal Services Limited that the pursuit of its business objectives must be tailored in a way that would assist in the realisation of objectives of the Port Concession programme of the Federal Government which commenced in 2005 and culminated in the concession of over 23 terminals to private operators. He recalled that the Federal Government upgraded the facilities at Terminal B Warri Old Port, which included the construction of a new quay wall and apron equipped with requisite facilities for berthing vessels, making it one of the most modern port terminals in the country at the time. “Upon completion of the rehabilitation and reconstruction works, there was a need to concession the Terminal to a private operator who would be responsible for the operation of the Terminal and carrying out further development of its facilities in line with the Ports Concession Programme”, Okoh said. He added that following the approval by the NCP, advertisements inviting Expressions of Interest (EOIs) from prospective concessionaires for the concession of the Terminal were  carried out  by the Bureau. Okoh revealed that the NCP at its meeting on June 12, 2018, approved the Technical and Financial bid of $100.78 million  submitted by Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited which emerged as the preferred bidder for Terminal B Warri Old Port. The Managing Director of NPA, Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman expressed delight at the conclusion of the concession of the terminal and noted that the concession of the Port is an important milestone in the economic development of the country. Stakeholders kick as BPE inches closer to Warri Port concession BPE reviews ports concession agreements Ports lose billions as irregularities mar concessions