Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, has changed her position regarding the second term bid of her husband with the constitution of a powerful campaign team with about 700 members. The constitution of the team was in sharp contrast to her earlier position regarding the president’s second term bid. Twice the president’s wife was in the news for expressing reservations on how the APC-led Federal Government under President Buhari was being run; saying unless things changed for the better, she would not work for her husband’s second term bid. In 2016, Mrs. Buhari in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service, threatened not to support her husband’s second term bid on the grounds that he had no direct influence on most of the appointments made after he assumed office in 2015. Late last year, she raised the alarm that her husband’s administration had been hijacked by two people against the over 15 million persons that voted for him in 2015. However, with the formation of her component of Buhari’s re-election campaign team, Mrs. Aisha apparently has resolved to fully support her husband. The campaign team drew membership from across the country, including the wife of the Vice President, Dolapo Osinbajo, senators, wives of governors, ministers, former governors, heads of federal agencies and entertainers. The team would be inaugurated on Thursday by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja, according to a statement by Aisha’s spokesman, Suleiman Haruna. Aisha is chairing the team herself with wife of the vice president as co-chair. The duo of Mrs. Adejoke O. Adefulure and wife of Nasarawa governor, Mrs. Mairo Al-Makura would serve as vice chairpersons for South and North, respectively. Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa Umar-Eluma is the National Coordinator of the team; Barr. Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagu (Dep. Nat. Coordinator-South) and Hajiya Binta Muazu (Dep. Nat. Coordinator-North). Breaking: Aisha Buhari backtracks, constitutes campaign team for husband's re-election 2019: Aisha Buhari slams APC, Oshiomhole ‘Mama Taraba’: Another governorship ambition scuttled?