The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar has said Nigeria must open a new chapter in its history to end terrorism in the North East and guarantee a peaceful territory that gives hope to all citizens. Atiku in a New Year message yesterday said, there was the need for Nigerians to make changes from the top to the bottom to make Nigeria work effectively again. “We already have the vision, the vision of a nation that is a beacon of hope for the Black Race and the world at large, what we lack and what 2019 can provide, is the leadership that has the capacity to translate that vision into reality. “In 2018, we became the world headquarters for extreme poverty, however, I am convinced that in 2019, if we chart a new course, we can become the world headquarters for hope and extreme devotion to the cause of lifting our people out of poverty. “We can chart a new course and open a new chapter that sees every Nigerian living in peace and prosperity with their neighbour. It can be the year when our youths finally get a job instead of being unfairly tagged as lazy. With purposeful leadership, it can also be the year when we put an end to terrorism and usher in a golden age of peace. “2019 is as yet a blank page. As a nation, we must not settle for whatever it brings. Rather, we must take collective action, through our choices, in making it a year where we revive national hope, with visionary leadership that sees our economy and institutions working again as they did in our golden era,” Atiku said. “But it will not just happen by itself. We have to make changes from the top all the way to the bottom. We already have the vision, the vision of a nation that is a beacon of hope for the Black Race and the world at large, what we lack and what 2019 can provide, is the leadership that has the capacity to translate that vision into reality. Remain positive in New Year, Saraki tells Nigerians Meanwhile, Senate Preaident Bukola Saraki, has called on Nigerians to remain positive and hope for better days as they celebrate the commencement of the New Year, 2019. Saraki in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja said the current social, economic and political challenges would give room for better times if Nigerians remain hopeful and collectively work together to ensure a turnaround. “I congratulate all Nigerians who are today ushering in a New Year in an atmosphere of peace. While a lot need to be done to increase the level of security in the land, revive our economy, gainfully engage our youths, the New Year gives us another opportunity to take steps that would lead us to our desired destination as a nation. “We can only overcome our challenges if we remain resolute in fighting for what is right and doing the right things. We should ensure the coming general elections is peaceful, free, fair and credible. All of us should abhor any illegal or violent activity. “We need to also remember our fellow countrymen and women in troubled areas of the country and pray to God to restore peace in all the nooks and cranny of the country, defeat insurgency and successfully restore the displaced people to their homestead. PDP, PPCO urges Nigerians to step into 2019 with faith and hope The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) has asked Nigerians to step into 2019 with unwavering optimism, faith and hope of a new era of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity. The party expressed optimism that its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar would win the February poll and usher in a new era of a transparent and responsive government with the template for wealth creation, job opportunities and revitalization of the nation’s productive sector through tax cuts and direct empowerment of hard working entrepreneurs. The PPCO said this would be done in a manner that increased the national productivity, reduce costs of goods and services, increase exports and shore up the value of the naira. “The PPCO congratulates Nigerians on their resilience in surviving the almost four years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s incompetent, anti-people and harsh administration and urges them to use the New Year to pray against all negative projections by President Muhammadu Buhari, who had declared more hardship for Nigerians in the coming year (2019). “2019, as an election year, offers our citizens their much-desired opportunity to end the trajectory of economic hardship, hunger and starvation, strange diseases, untimely deaths, collapsed infrastructure, humongous  unemployment figures, wanton killings and all the evils that have bedeviled our nation in almost four years of the President Buhari’s corrupt and incompetent administration,” the PPCO said. The United Progressive Party (UPP) in a statement yesterday by its National Chairman, Chief Chekwas Okorie, asked all Nigerians to go into the new year with every sense of patriotism and elect credible candidates in the forthcoming general elections. “We urge politicians to imbibe issue-based politics and eschew politics of bitterness and violence that has impended the nation’s democratic process. We urge the INEC to provide a level playing field for all the political parties participating in various elections. “The need for free, fair, credible, transparent, peaceful and generally acceptable elections cannot be overemphasized as we further consolidate our emerging democracy,” the party said. Similarly, a Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) in a statement by its Spokesman, Chief Ikenga Ugochinyere appealed to all Nigerians to forget the pains of 2018 and welcome the new year with hope. “The year 2019 holds a bright future for Nigeria starting with therejection of Buhari and APC,” the CUPP said. The Coalition urged Nigerians to be ready to defend their votes and ensure their votes counted.