Members of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state have traded words over alleged shooting and destruction of property in the Ilorin metropolis on Sunday. It was gathered that suspected political thugs unleashed mayhem at Ode Alfa Nda, Agbaji and Ayelabegan communities in the Ilorin metropolis where many people were reportedly injured by gunshots fired by the thugs at a political rally. It was also gathered that windscreen of many vehicles numbering about 40 were destroyed by the thugs in the attack, while party supporters scampered for safety. Speaking on the development, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the state command, Ajayi Okasanmi, confirmed the incident, adding that investigation was ongoing to arrest perpetrators of the break down in law and order in the metropolis. He also warned trouble makers, political parties and their leaders to caution their supporters, saying that anyone found culpable in election violence would be severely dealt with. In a statement by the media aide to the APC governorship candidate, Rafiu Ajakaye, in Ilorin on Sunday, two persons, who were seriously injured by gunshots, fired by the thugs, were receiving treatment at undisclosed hospital. Ajakaye, who said that the Kwara APC governorship candidate, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, was quickly whisked away from the rally, called on security agencies to buckle down and tame hooliganism terrorizing electioneering campaign in the state. The APC also said the PDP thugs have mass-produced vests and other APC logos with which they are going around Kwara State to destroy things and attack innocent citizens. “We recently alerted the people of Kwara to this evil tactic of the PDP. Armed with guns and other deadly weapons, they are wearing the same APC vests and filming themselves as they carried out this act of violence against Kwarans. This was the same tactic they deployed in 2003 and other election periods. These are panicky measures adopted by the drowning dynasty which has lost the battle of ideas. “We understand that the Senate president went to some hospitals in Surulere to visit victims of the attacks. We recommend that Nollywood should consider giving some politicians a role in their upcoming movies, especially that people will soon vote them out of public office. We dare say that the visit of the Senate president was meant to cover up the evils of his men. “We remain committed to running a peaceful, issues-based and decent campaign.  Again, we call on the security agencies to arrest this ugly trend. These thugs should be arrested and questioned to reveal their true identities,” Ajakaye said. Also, a member of the PDP in the state, Baba Idris, said that two people, who were reportedly shot, later died, adding that more than 20 cars were destroyed in the Agbaji compound, Ilorin, during the mayhem. Idris also said that families affected by the onslaught by the thugs include the Île Ottan, Sholagberu, Wopa, Olayeri, and Onilemarun families, adding that Alfa Nda, Imam Aliagan’s car was also destroyed. Commenting on the development, the Director General of the PDP campaign council in the state, Prof. Suleiman Abubakar, said the orgy of violence was being perpetrated by the APC leaders in the state to instill fear in the minds of residence ahead of the coming general elections, having discovered that Kwarans have rejected them. 3 killed as thugs clash in Ilorin Despite peace accord, political violence takes centre stage in Kwara The politics that cost Saraki Kwara by-election