A 43-year-old lesson teacher has been arrested for allegedly having anal sex with a five year old girl in a mosque at Igando area of Lagos. Police said Abdulsalam Salaudeen was caught on camera while penetrating the minor whom he was supposed to be teaching Arabic language. The police said the suspect who had been engaging in the illicit act for quite some time was captured on camera by a concerned neighbour. Lagos State police spokesperson, Chike Oti, who confirmed the matter, said on December 28, 2018, a good samaritan visited the headquarters of the Lagos State Police Command with a video evidence of the Alfa, having anal sex with a five-year-old girl that he was supposed to be teaching Islamic studies. Oti said the complainant sought audience with the state Commissioner of Police, CP Edgal Imohimi. He said the CP, after watching the heart-rending video, directed the command’s undercover operatives attached to the State Intelligence Bureau to immediately arrest the culprit and hand him over to the Gender Section for detailed investigation. He said the operatives went in search of the suspect and arrested him near a mosque in the Igando area of the state. “He was taken from there to the Gender Unit, where the Officer-in-Charge, ASP (Mrs) Abimbola Williams, confronted him with the video of him defiling the child by penetrating her anus and private parts. “On seeing himself captured like an actor in a movie, the suspect broke down in tears and owned up to the crime. He later gave his name as Abdulsalam Salaudeen, a 43-year-old man resident at 16, Awoyemi Street, Igando Road, Ikotun, Lagos. “The case will be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded” he added. Otu said that the CP, while commending the courageous act of the good Nigerian, warned parents and guardians to keep constant watch over their children and wards, adding that nobody should be trusted. “Be friends with your children and let them be free to share things with you. Do not cover up any crime, no matter who is involved. Raise the alarm on child molesters in your neighbourhood so they can face the law and others nursing such thoughts can be deterred” he said.  You will be jailed if caught having sex in public – Lagos CP warns Man in police net for allegedly defiling deaf, dumb minor When teachers prey on their students