The new acting Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu assumed duty at the headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force in Abuja (NPF) yesterday with a pledge to play by the rules. Adamu took over from Ibrahim Idris who bowed out as the 19th indigenous IGP after clocking the mandatory retirement age of 60 years yesterday. The new police boss was earlier decorated by President Muhammadu Buhari, assisted by Idris at the presidential Villa, Abuja yesterday. Adamu’s appointment is subject to confirmation by the Senate, and the president is expected to get the endorsement of the appointment by the Council of State. He told State House correspondents after his decoration, that he would stick by the rules in the discharge of his duties. “I want to thank Mr. President for considering me worthy to be the next Inspector General of Police. “We know that there are security challenges that we need to tackle in the country. “From the strategies put in place by the former IGP, we will restrategize and make sure that we tackle these challenges squarely, “ he said. Responding to question on the forthcoming elections, Adamu said “You have heard from the former IGP, adequate arrangement has been made to make sure that free and fair and credible elections take place in Nigeria. We are going to build up on the strategies put in place to make sure that we have hitch-free elections in the country. “We are professionals. We are going to stick by the rules, we are going to do the right thing. We will not go outside the ethics of our job to do things that are untoward, everybody will be given level playing ground to play his or her politics.” Idris counsels successor Speaking after meeting with President Buhari together with his successor, the former IGP Idris advised the new police boss to go round the country and adopt measures that would enhance security. On preparation for election, Idris said, “Obviously we are adequately prepared for the elections. We have carried out a lot of elections in this country and I think you will agree with me that the Nigeria police force tried in these elections. I am assuring Nigerians that the Nigeria Police are going to do their best in these coming elections.” A statement by the spokesperson of the NPF, DCP Jimoh Moshood, quoted the former IGP as thanking President Buhari for the opportunity given to him to serve under his administration. He also asked Nigerians to support his successor, Adamu. Daily Trust reports that the acting IGP visited all the departments on each of the seven story building yesterday before exiting the building. Many DIGs may retire Daily Trust learnt yesterday that immediately after taking over the reins of leadership, Adamu went into a meeting with Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs) at the Force Headquarters. Sources told Daily Trust that some DIGs are likely to retire along with the IGP Idris because of their seniority in rank to the new IGP. They include: DIG Maigari Dikko (Finance and Administration); DIG Joshak Habila (Operations); DIG Emmanuel Iyang (Information Communication Technology), DIG Sani Mohammed (Training and Development) and DIG Agboola Oshodi-Glover (Logistics and Supply). However, DIG Mohammed Musa Katsina (Research and Planning), and DIG Peace Abdullah (Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department), promoted in October 2018, may decide to work with the new IGP, a top police source said. Daily Trust recalls that when the AIG Idris emerged as the successor of former IGP Solomon Arase, many DIGs had to retire because the new police boss was their junior. It was also gathered that the leadership change at the Lagos State Police Command scheduled for yesterday was suspended on the authorization of the new IGP. The Lagos State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal, had earlier been asked to handover to Commissioner of Police Kayode Egbetokun of the Police Anti-Bomb Squad. Several junior officers also re-deployed across the country last week have also been asked to stay action for now. A detective takes charge Adamu was born on September 17, 1961 in Lafia, Nasarawa State and enlisted into the Force on 1st February, 1986 as Cadet Assistant Inspector General of Police. He holds Masters of Science Degree (MSc) in International Criminal Justice Systems from the University of Portsmouth, England and a Bachelor of Science (BSC) Hons Geography from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He had both his primary and secondary education in Nasarawa State (formerly part of Plateau State). He is known as an experienced detective who received training from various institutions within and outside Nigeria. Before his appointment as the acting IGP, he was a Directing Staff at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos, Plateau State. Between 2016 and 2017, he was Assistant Inspector-General of Police Benin City, Edo State responsible for the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) Zone 5, comprising Bayelsa, Delta and Edo State Police Commands. From 2013 to 2015 he was Commissioner of Police (CP) Enugu State Command Enugu, also from 2012 to 2014 served as the Vice President Interpol in Lyon France. This was after he was elected as Interpol Vice President responsible for Africa at its meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam. Adamu also carried out several criminal investigations for Nigeria in the United Kingdom, United States, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Taiwan, The Netherlands, and several West African countries. The new police boss had equally worked at various times in Kaduna, Ekiti, Lagos, Cross River and Imo states. PDP to IGP: Kick-out template for election rigging The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has been urged to commence the re-engineering of the Nigeria Police to restore professionalism and adherence to rules of engagement in the force. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) gave the charge through a statement by its Director Media and Publicity, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan. Idris leaves, hands over to new IGP Adamu Presidency keeps mum on IGP’s replacement Kick-out template for election rigging, PDP tells new IGP