President Muhammadu Buhari will lead other stalwarts of Nigeria’s ruling political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) to flag-off the party’s campaign in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State on Wednesday, January 30. The flag-off is scheduled to hold at the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki. The governorship candidate of the APC in Ebonyi State, Senator Sonni Ogbuoji, in a statement made available to our correspondent in Lagos said the flag-off will be an opportunity for Ebonyi people to know his plans for the liberation of the state from the stranglehold of those he called “purveyors of poverty and underdevelopment of the state.” He said, “I am on a liberation mission in Ebonyi state. I have always believed that public officers should work to enthrone a government that works with the people to enthrone a collective sense of common purpose and direction for the benefit of all stakeholders. “This belief has not changed; instead it has been strengthened over the years, necessitating my desire to serve the good people of Ebonyi state.” Other big wigs of the party who are expected to grace the occasion include Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of APC, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; the national leader of the APC, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Others are Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, Governor Nassir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, Chief Ajomole, former Chairman of All Chairmen of APC, and the members of the National Working Committee of the APC. “For these people to come to Ebonyi State to support our campaign despite their already tight schedules, shows how significant the event is for the party,” said Senator Ogbuoji. He added: “Ebonyi people should be rest assured that the governance of prosperity and progress which APC is bringing to the state will reach everybody. “We will ensure that our youths are sufficiently empowered and taken off the streets of Nigerian cities – the era of Ebonyi street hawkers will be a thing of the past when APC takes over government in Ebonyi State come May 2019.” Also commenting on the flag-off ceremony, Prince Nweze Onu, the APC candidate for Ebonyi South Senatorial Zone, said that Ogbuoji has used his position as a senator to attract many projects to the state. On his part, Eze Nwachukwu Eze, the Ebonyi state Chairman of APC, said the party has applied to the state Ministry of Youths and Sports for the release of the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, the arena that will host the event. 2019 poll: Buhari is Ebonyi’s only choice APC chieftain tasks Igbos on Buhari’s re-election bid Oshiomhole tackles defectors at Ebonyi  APC rally