The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Thursday said five crew members on board an MI-35 helicopter that crashed during combat in the North East are dead. Air Force spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, in a statement said, “It is with a heavy heart that I announce the death of the five crew members who were on board the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Mi-35M Helicopter which crashed in combat yesterday, 2 January 2019.” He said they died while providing close air support to troops of 145 Battalion, Damasak in Borno State. Daramola did not state the cause of the crash. He said the deceased personnel remains have been recovered and taken to Maiduguri. He gave their names as: “Flight Lieutenant Perowei Jacob – Pilot in Command, Flight Lieutenant Kaltho Paul Kilyofas – Co-Pilot, Sergeant Auwal Ibrahim  – Flight Technician,  Lance Corporal Adamu Nura – Gunner and Aircraftman Meshack Ishmael – Gunner.” He said, “These gallant fallen heroes made the supreme sacrifice in the service of our Fatherland, for which the NAF, and indeed the entire nation, owes them an unending debt of gratitude.” He also said, “The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on behalf all officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the NAF, commiserates with the families of the five fallen heroes and prays that the Almighty God grants their souls peaceful repose.” He said, “The CAS was in Maiduguri today, 3 January 2019, to convey the condolences of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammed Buhari, to personnel of the Air Task Force Operation LAFIYA DOLE over the unfortunate loss.” “While in Maiduguri, the CAS also received a condolence visit from the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai,” he added. He further said, “The NAF appreciates the overwhelming support shown by the general public to the Service over the sad incident. We continue to solicit your understanding and support as we daily strive to ensure the security of Nigeria and Nigerians.” In another statement earlier, Daramola said, the incident occurred about 7:45pm on 2nd January 2019. Air-Force Helicopter crash: technician declared missing in action Air Force helicopter lost in combat Three dead in another NAF helicopter crash near Yola