…NJC also queries CCT chair, reconvenes February 11  The National Judicial Council (NJC) yesterday held an emergency meeting and directed the embattled Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Walter Onnoghen and the acting CJN Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad to respond to three petitions against them within seven days. The meeting, which was chaired by the former President of the Court of Appeal, retired Justice Umar Abdullahi, as interim chairman, will reconvene on February 11, barely five days to the presidential and National Assembly elections. Onnoghen was suspended and Muhammad inaugurated as acting CJN by President Muhammadu Muhammadu Buhari on Friday. Lawyers have expressed divergent views over the legality of the president’s action. The NJC in a communiqué signed by its Director of Information, Soji Oye, said Justice Onnoghen was to respond to a petition against him by Zikhrillahi Ibrahim of Resource Centre for Human Rights & Civil Education. Justice Muhammad is to respond to two petitions against him – one by the Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative, and another petition by Olisa Agbakoba (SAN). Daily Trust could not establish the personality behind the Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative which also sent another petition against the Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), Danladi Umar. The petition against the CCT chairman was referred to the Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC), which has powers under Paragraph 13 of the Third Schedule to the 1999 Constitution to advise the NJC in nominating persons for appointment as CCT chairman. The CCT is not a conventional court. Reacting to the decision of the NJC, Prof Auwalu Yadudu (SAN) said the council has acted within its constitutional function to receive petitions against judicial officers and exercise disciplinary control over them through recommendations to the president subject to the confirmation or concurrence of the president. “The constitution puts obligation on the President to forward NJC recommendation to National Assembly to confirm or decline to confirm those recommendations,” he said. A senior lawyer who understands the activities of the NJC, Murtala Abdulrasheed, said the only positive that could be drawn from the outcome of Tuesday’s meeting is that the NJC has now taken control of the matter and has already taken steps pursuant to its powers under Paragraph 21 of the Third Schedule of the 199 Constitution. “Nothing really was decided on whether the suspension of the CJN should be vacated or not,” he said. Explaining NJC’s rules and procedure, he said when the petition is received, a committee will be set up to look into it after which a recommendation will be made to the president either to retire or otherwise. He noted that the president is not bound to comply with the recommendation of the NJC, citing the case of former President Goodluck Jonathan and President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Ayo Salami in May 2012, which the former president did not do until his retirement.  S/Court decision in Senate suit may not change situation Reacting to the suit by the suit filed by the Senate seeking for interpretation of the provisions of Section 292(1)(a)(i) of the Constitution, Abdulrasheed said it may not serve to address the current concerns in the highest echelon of the nation’s judiciary. “If the Supreme Court makes a decision today, it cannot take a retrospective effect,” he said. “But it would serve to guide for future occurrence.”  Onnoghen challenges CCT’s order to Buhari The embattled Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen has appealed the order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) directing him to step aside and for an acting CJN to be sworn-in. In the appeal filed on Monday before the Court of Appeal in Abuja, Justice Onnoghen is asking the court to set aside the order of the tribunal made on 23rd January, 2019. In the appeal filed by his counsel, Wole Olanipekun (SAN), leading other senior lawyers, Onnoghen said the tribunal chairman, Justice Danladi Umar and a member erred in law and acted without jurisdiction when they ordered him to step aside as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman of the National Judicial Council “over allegations of contravening the provisions of the Code of Conduct and Tribunal Act, Cap C15 Laws of the Federation 2004 pending the determination of the Motion on Notice dated 10th January 2019. “That the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall take all necessary measures to swear-in the most senior Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria as Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman of the National Judicial Council in order to prevent a vacuum in the Judicial Arm of Government pending the determination of the Motion on Notice, and thereby occasioned a grave miscarriage of justice,” he submitted. The appellate court panel presided by Justice Abdul Aboki had fixed today for hearing on the application to stay the proceedings against the CJN at the CCT over alleged false asset declaration.  BREAKING: NJC gives Justices Onnoghen, Mohammed 7 days to respond to petitions Task before Acting CJN Onnoghen All Eyes On Justice Onnoghen