Living in the slums of Rikkos, in between narrow alleys of Rafin Karas, the corrugated roofing sheet door that provides access to the home of 35 year old Kaka Malama has had several knocks in almost 17 years. Close to 10 pregnant women knock on her door weekly, not minding if it’s early morning or late at night hoping they would avoid the fate of what has now become common in most private hospitals; a caesarean section (CS). In medical sense, what Kaka Malam is able to do is described as external cephalic version which is a manual process by which a breech baby can be turned from buttocks or foot first to head first to ensure the mother is able to deliver without CS. Many women who are anxious to avoid CS often rush to her even though she says she is neither a midwife nor medical personnel. They come from Kano, Kaduna, Abuja or Sokoto for Kaka Malama’s procedure and Mariya Ibrahim who attests to the woman’s gifts said; “In less than 30 minutes, the baby is corrected, you don’t feel any pain, just a discomfort as she massages the stomach and once she is done, she guides your hand so you can feel it. She would then recommend to you to go for another ultrasound to be sure that it worked.” Born with a left leg deformity, Malama who has now taken up her grand mother’s nickname is fondly referred to as Kaka Malam. She grew up with her grandmother who lived in Gangare, in Jos north who transferred the gift to her. “My grandmother’s name was Hauwa but many people called her Kakan Malama in reference to me. I was named Malama due to my deformity. My parents took me to several hospitals to try to heal the leg and when I was taken to a particular hospital, a white man told my parents that nothing could be done and that I must have come to this world as Malama (teacher) and so everyone began to call me Malama.” At 15 years, Kaka Malama assisted her grandmother with some of the procedures. “She would make me feel the head, the hands, and the legs of a baby. When I got married at the age of 18, I continued because it was something that was passed on to my family from generation to generation. My grandmother also learnt from her father who was from Biu in Borno state,” she said. Though her methods are considered traditional, Kaka Malama, however, insists that women who visit her must first of all go to the hospital for an ultrasound. “You have to do your antenatal, do an ultrasound or else I cannot help you. Even I go to the hospital when I’m pregnant and two of my kids were breech including my last son. When I went to the hospital during my last pregnancy, they said they were going to admit me for caesarean section but I told them I had lost an in-law and needed to return home. So I came back home and turned the head of my baby by myself and in less than a week, I went back to the hospital and had my baby,” she said. With nothing but a simple Bisimillah,(In the name of Allah), Kaka Malama first feels the features of the baby by touching the protruded abdomen of a pregnant woman. She then gently begins to massage the stomach until the baby is turned head down and guides the mother’s hand to touch the head of her child. “I then give the mother some herbs to drink in her pap or tea. The herbs come from my home town in Maiduguri,” she explained. Just as her gift was passed on from her grandmother, the 35 year-old is passing same to her teenage daughter, Hauwa who already performs the procedure unsupervised. Hauwa visits women at home when her mother is busy attending to others. The teenager however told our correspondent that, “nobody asked me if I wanted to learn this trade because it is a burden but I have found myself doing it because my mother and grandmother were into it.” The young girl said she now plans to study any medical related course so that she can combine her gifts with a more scientific medical skill. “My friends keep begging me to teach them but it is not something you teach, it is a gift that is passed on and shrouded in family secrets,” she said. With her grandmother dead about four years ago, Kaka Malama is today the must go on women pregnancies in Jos. “People of all tribes and religion visit me; some come directly from the hospital when they have been told they have a breeched baby and are asked to prepare for a CS,” she said. Even medically, external cephalic version could be considered risky but Kaka Malama says she has never been faced with any complications during the procedure and that all babies she had turned had been delivered successfully. Charges for the procedure vary depending on whether the woman is resident in Jos or comes from another state. Those living in Jos are charged N8, 000 while those from outside the state are charged N10, 000. She said this is because those in Jos may have to return periodically until they get to their final trimester while those who come from other states would have to see me once for the procedure before delivery.” Despite being quiet profitable, Kaka Malama said it sometimes has its downturn as it requires patience because some people do not pay for services rendered. “There are times people would promise to pay me after the procedure but as soon as it is done, they will disappear. Then there are those who would later return to argue that they never gave permission to their wives to visit me. These are people whose wives must have told him before coming but when it works, the husband will now evade payment.” Coupled with all the challenges, she also has to deal with quacks who are impersonating her around Jos. “There is a particular lady in Jos who tells people that she is my grandmother’s grandchild and most times her patients have to come back to me because she doesn’t know what she is doing,” she said. Why Caesarian Section is now a trend for women What women should know about eclampsia Why cesarean section is prevalent among affluent women