The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus  Friday said that “cabal” in the current government wanted to kill President Muhammadu Buhari. Secondus who inaugurated a 27-man sub-committee of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO), in Abuja, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) bigwigs were “deceiving” the President to seek a second term and “over-working” him instead of asking him to rest. The PDP helmsman said Nigeria was sliding into a state of anarchy under the current government and called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to remain neutral during the February 16 presidential poll. He cautioned that there would be crisis in the nation if INEC failed to conduct a credible election. “We are worried that the cabal wants to kill Mr. President because they are not allowing him to rest. That story is for another day.
“The Nigerian public should know so that from now, they can see the clear difference between an energetic and competent candidate ready to become the President with a lot to offer. “We are pained about the way the cabal is mounting pressure on the President. You are aware of what happened in Kogi; you are aware of what happened during the interview. You can see that the President is under stress, is under immense pressure from the leadership of the APC. “The analysis is very straight. Do they want to kill the President? Because they are over-working him and you can see the mistakes all over. That interview was a national disgrace.
“What happened in Warri yesterday (Thursday) was another national disgrace. No wonder we are not respected in the comity of nations. And when we say the truth, they say it is hate speech. “To turn around the economy of our country. You can hear Atiku clearly. He has the rhetorics, the articulation. He can communicate, he can engage. So he is going to engage world leaders to bring honour and dignity to our country. “Shame on the leaders of the APC. Why can’t Buhari behave like Mandela? One term is enough. If he is doing this way like we are seeing in the videos, what will happen in the next four years? It will be a complete, absolute disaster. “This election must be free, fair and credible and we therefore congratulate the new IGP and ask him to clean up the mess of the former IGP. The duty of the Police is to protect lives and properties according to the constitution, not to get involved in politics.
They should maintain their professionalism. “But if they go outside their constitutional responsibility, that is where the crisis will come from. But we will to advise that we don’t want crisis in our country. If you want to avoid crisis, please be neutral. “INEC also must be neutral. Professor Yakubu has not shown enough strength and will. Rhetorics are not enough because all the elections he conducted failed the litmus test. In Ekiti, Osun, it was shame,”Secondus said. Secondus: ‘Cabal’ wants Buhari dead APC government filled with cabals - Secondus PDP won’t accept ‘fake results’ in 2019 – Secondus