Nigerian youths  pose a growing threat during political campaigns and elections in this country, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Media Trust Ltd Malam Kabiru Yusuf said in Abuja yesterday. Speaking at the 16th Daily Trust Dialogue, he said the huge number of youths, who are mainly unemployed or trying to eke out a living in the informal sector of the economy, are easily mobilised as thugs by politicians during elections. Delivering his welcome address at the Dialogue, whose theme was ‘Youth and Democracy, the Nigerian Challenge,’ Malam Kabiru Yusuf called for urgent action to engage the youths. He said, “With the national election just a month away, this year we had no difficulty in choosing the theme of this dialogue because when we think of the many challenges facing our democracy, managing the youth bulge is one of the most urgent. “We must thank God that Nigeria has had 20 unbroken years of civilian rule and I think we must do all we can to keep it that way because poverty, illiteracy and a growing culture of violence has become a major threat to our democracy. The youth segment of our population are easily mobilised to become enforcers and thugs for politicians who use force rather than persuasion to win election. “According to the latest figures released by the Independent National Electoral Commission, out of the 84 million people who have registered to vote in this year’s election, more than half, about 43 million are in what is called the youthful category that is between 18 to 35 years of age. It is safe to assume that a large portion of these youth are unemployed or people who are struggling to eke a living in the informal economy. These are potential cannon fodder of the political gimmicks. We must devise ways to give them jobs and hope. Only then can we realistically call on them to be good citizens.” The Dialogue was chaired by Prof Jibrin Ibrahim, Senior Fellow of the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD). The guest speakers were former PDP presidential aspirant Dr Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed; Special Adviser to the President on Social Investment Plan Mrs Maryan Uwais; and Coordinator of the Not Too Young to Run movement, Samson Itodo. 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Nigerian youths, threat during campaigns and elections - Yusuf 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Fraudulently elected govt is a civilian coup – Datti Baba-Ahmed COMMUNIQUE ISSUED AT THE END OF 16TH DAILY TRUST ANNUAL DIALOGUE ON THE THEME: “YOUTH AND DEMOCRACY: THE NIGERIAN CHALLENGE,” HELD ON THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018 AT NAF CONFERENCE CENTRE AND SUITES, ABUJA