The federal government yesterday insisted that the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Samuel Onnoghen, must step down from his position as head of the judiciary to answer the case of non-declaration of assets filed against him. The Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) in a six-count charge filed at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) on January 11 accused the Nigeria’s head of judiciary of failure to declare his assets between June, 2005 and December, 2016. The prosecutor filed a motion on notice asking the CCT to order the CJN to step down as the head of nation’s judiciary and the Chairman of the National Judicial Council (NJC) as his case proceeds. However, the CJN through his counsel, Wole Olanipekun (SAN), also filed an application to challenge the jurisdiction of the tribunal to hear the case. During yesterday’s sitting, Olanipekun told the three-man panel that the defence was not ready to move its application because the reply of the prosecution was only received on Monday. He said the defence needed two days to reply on point of law before moving the application. Prosecution counsel, Aliyu Umar (SAN) thereafter urged the tribunal to allow him go ahead with his motion on notice seeking the CJN to step aside pending the determination of the suit. He said the prosecution is not seeking for the removal of the defendant as the CJN and Chairman of NJC but the application is only seeking for him to step down in line with the decision of the NJC in 2016 that judges accused of corruption should step aside pending the determination of the cases against them. However, the tribunal chairman, Danladi Umar said since the CJN’s application was challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal, the ideal thing would be to first decide the application. He therefore adjourned proceedings to January 28 for the hearing of the CJN’s application. Onnoghen personally served with summons – CCT official CJN Onnoghen asks tribunal to adjourn case indefinitely Why tribunal adjourned Onnoghen’s arraignment