The Supreme Council for Shari’ah in Nigeria (SCSN), Kaduna state chapter has called on the federal government to ensure that justice prevails over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. The chairman of the council in the state, Shaikh Sambo Rigachikun, at a news briefing on Wednesday said the council also called on the federal government to do all it can within the constitutional provisions to lay the issue to rest. Rigachikun, who was represented by the council secretary, Abdurrahman Hassan, frowned at how some Nigerians attached religious sentiments to the suspension of the CJN. He described as disheartening how some Senior Advocates of Nigeria who witnessed the suspension and removal of Justice Salami now fault similar actions against Justice Onnoghen. He wondered how SANs will degrade ‎ themselves to think within the whim of their ethnicity and religious sentiments describing such attitude as unfortunate. “It’s with dismay the reaction of some Nigerians towards the CJN. The law should be allowed to take its course on whoever is on the wrong side of the law. “The National Judiciary Council (NJC) should be seen as taken appropriate decision against any ‎judicial officer that is not fit and proper to be a judicial officer in the land for the trust is on them and must be seen to be discharging same at all cost,” he said. The council also advised those who gave the CJN suspension religious colouration to be mindful of the fact that it is a costly trend and an ill-wind that will blows no good for the country. “Let us observe restraint on matters that will further polarize us, rather than uniting us. We call on all Muslims in particular and the public in general to be law abiding and pray fervently for peaceful coexistence in the country. “We call on the federal government to do all it could within the constitutional provision for this issue to be ‎laid to rest. “The government should not yield to pressures from some quarters which might be tantamount to breakdown of law and order,” he said. Onnoghen: NJC meets today as acting CJN presides at S/Court Onnoghen: We’ll support anti-corruption war South-south governors, lawyers advise Onnoghen to disregard CCB summons