The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, flagged off its governorship campaign in Kaduna where the leaders urged the electorate to vote for its candidates to return the state to the path of prosperity. The PDP governorship candidate in the state, Alhaji Isa Ashiru, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state had failed.  He called on the people to come out en masse to vote for the PDP at all levels. Ashiru also took a swipe at the APC-led government for the sacking of civil servants and teachers and promised that if elected, he would set up a committee that would review the cases of sacked workers so as to reinstate those whose appointments were “unjustly  terminated.” “I want all of you to ensure that you keep your voters cards safely. Your voters’ card is your power,” he said. The National Chairman of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Alhaji Buba Galadima, who spoke at the occasion, said the APC government had brought hunger, poverty and insecurity on Nigerians. He said the PDP would change that by the time it came back to power. “You must make sure that you vote the PDP for president, governor and all other positions. You must protect your votes, come out en masse and ensure that you cast your votes no matter what,” he stated. The immediate past governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Ramalan Yero, chided the APC government in the state for non-performance. He said Kaduna was for PDP and anyone who had contrary opinion was deceiving himself. The rally was attended by many PDP chieftains including a former vice president, Namadi Sambo, former national caretaker chairman of the party, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, chairman of the PDP Board of Trustees (Bot), Senator Walid Jibrin and  Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi among others. PDP flags off campaign in Kaduna, promises to return state to prosperity Kaduna SDP governorship candidate dares El-Rufai, Ashiru to debate Governorship: Kaduna’s frontline 4 and how they stand