In about a month, the local variety of tomatoes is expected to flood Sokoto markets, according to farmers and dealers in the produce. However, they are also lamenting the heavy loss they usually incur anytime there is glut in tomato business due to lack of modern storage facilities and off takers to buy from them in large quantities. “Any time the local variety becomes ready for harvest, and it floods the market, we encounter heavy losses, some farmers record N200, 000 -N300, 000 worth of damages in a week,” asserted Secretary Vegetable Sellers Association, Sokoto state chapter, Alhaji Mukhtari Aliyu Yabo. He added: “A merchant buys a basket from farmers at N15, 000 and glut comes in, he has to sell at N10,000 after a day or two, to avoid total loss of his capital, and this is due to lack of storage facility and off takers in Sokoto state.” The Sokoto state government had planned to Partner with a private firm Ericson Foods Ltd to establish a $250m tomato processing plant in the state while Dangote Tomato Processing Company, Kano in 2017, also indicated interest to procure the commodity from Sokoto. According to the Secretary Yabo, his association was contacted on the Dangote deal “we sent two representatives and the Dangote team went round some tomato farms with them. Since then, we heard nothing of the programme.” He underscored the need for a tomato processing company in Sokoto for value addition and to reduce waste. A tomato farmer Wadata  Bala from Dange Shuni Local government who has over 30 years in tomato farming, ,lamented “2017 /2018 were not happy times for tomato farmers in Sokoto state, as many encountered heavy losse.” While recounting his losses, the farmer said he sank N100,000 in the 2017 and 2018 dry season tomato farming but could not realise anything from it. “We lost so much.  It was as a result of an attack by a kind of pest and our tomatoes’ growths were stunted, they refused to be ripe and remained green. Many tomato farmers encountered the same problem leading to poor yields and losses.” He added: “We took the matter to Ministry of Agriculture and we were promised to be provided with a variety of pesticide but they are yet to provide any.” Bala who produces about N50, 000 worth of tomatoes weekly, however appealed to the state government to assist the thousands of tomato farmers with soft loan, fertilizer, seedlings and water pumping machine. He added: “The newly modified and introduced tomato seedling should be made available in the market for farmers to access it easily.” The farmer  said when local variety is not available that they go for it outside the state to such places such as   Zaria, Katsina and Mafara and sometimes during when scarcity, they travel even outside the country, to Ghana, Cameroon and Mali to get tomatoes. At present, the dealers in Sokoto said they get tomatoes from Mafara, Katsina and Zaria. “But very soon local variety would flood market”, they assured. “During harvest period, we transport tomato to distant areas such as Lagos, Ibadan, Onitsha, Akure, Warri and other places,” he stated  A basket that previously sold N10, 000-15,000 due to scarcity is now sold for N3, 500-N4,000 According to the dealers, the same basket could come down to as low as between N1, 200 and N2000, when glut hit tomato market. The Secretary Alhaji Mukhtari Aliyu Yabo who noted major producing Local government to include Goronyo, Wurno, Kware, Wamakko Dange shuni and Bodinga, reiterated the need for tomato factory. He also pointed out that the current tomato depot in the state capital is congested. “There’s no available space for conducive business. We were relocated here since 1998, and the place is now too tight for numerous consumers and merchants, including the vehicles conveying the goods into the market, it is no longer conducive for us, we need the government to relocate us to a more spacious and conducive place.” Yabo suggested: “Here is an excavation site nearby; they can rehabilitate the place for us. With over thousands of people mostly across 23 Local government area, comprising, men, women, (married and widowed), teenagers, the association is growing by day due to high demand of tomato.” He however noted the need for fencing of their present market at Kasuwar Daji, against trespassing, theft and destruction of their wares. “The tomato market needs adequate security   which is why we are requesting for government to provide us with station as well as NSCDC outpost, we also require a fire fighting vehicle.” The Secretary appealed to the state government to provide soft loan to tomato traders in order boost their trade  Alhaji Mukhtari decried security situation along Sokoto /Gusau road in Zamfara state areas which he said forced some drivers to abandon transportation of tomato to Sokoto from such areas. “Many commercial drivers using J5 vehicles do not like conveying tomato to Sokoto for fear of kidnap or being killed.” He urged government to boost security on the road in order to save the lives of innocent people. When contacted on the planned deals with the private firms, Administrative Secretary Sokoto state Committee on the Revitalization of Agriculture, Mallam Gatawa said for Ericson, the firm signed an agreement with the state government on tomato processing plant but that it officially withdrew before the commencement of the project. However, for Dangote he said the agreement was still on and hopefully would be back when set. For Tomato farmers and dealers in Sokoto, all they need is needed support. “We can provide enough tomato for consumption and even export instead bringing it into the state from other states and neighbouring countries,” Bala asserted. Sokoto yam sellers groan over high transport fare Wheat farmers speak on challenges of 2018, expectations of 2019 Dilemma of tomato farmers