Former champions Enyimba FC of Aba and CAF Champions League entrant Lobi Stars of Makurdi battled to a goalless draw in one of the Nigeria Professional Football League matches played yesterday. The match was played at the Enyimba International Stadium in Aba. Theophilus Afelokhai of Enyimba made his first appearance of the season as the former champions made six changes to the side that lost 2-3 at Kwara United on Sunday. Ghanaian import Farouk Mohammed and left back Benjamin Francis also made their debut as well. At the Okigwe Township Stadium, Heartland FC defeated Go Round by a lone goal scored during stoppage time. Okon Otop headed home Samuel Nnoshiri’s freekick to break the deadlock at the 94th minute. FC IfeanyiUbah dimmed Yobe Stars by a lone goal scored by Chinonso Udeh at the FC IfeanyiUbah International Stadium, Nnewi. It will be noted here that the home side goal keeper Chinedu Anozie is yet to concede a goal this season after 270 minutes. In Minna, Niger Tornadoes were unable to break a wounded Remo Stars, who have been banished to Osogbo for fans’ misconduct. The Sagamu-based club, who have lost both of their previous meetings with Niger Tornadoes in the top flight, ensured they left Minna with a clean sheet and a point. In Katsina, Sheriff Bashir secured all three points for Katsina United against Gombe United in the dying minutes of the game after coming on as a substitute. The result was a soothing balm to the home side who lost a penalty in the 63rd minute. In Gombe, Kano Pillars were ripped apart by the home team in a game that ended 2-0. Usman Musa swept home Joseph Onoja’s pass to give Gombe the lead, while substitute Babangida Ibrahim sealed the victory, heading home from close range off a fine cross by Ganda Samuel in the 71st minute. Results from other matches saw Sunshine Stars playing out 1-1 with Rivers United, while the game between Bendel Insurance and Kwara Utd ended 0-0. Akwa United held Plateau Utd to a 2-2 draw as Abia Warriors showed supremacy over Kada City with a 1-0 victory. With these results, MFM FC top Group A with 6 points closely followed by Kwara United who are on 5 points. Similarly, Heartland FC top Group B with 9 points while FC IfeanyiUbah are second with 8 points. Nasarawa end Pillars’ home invincibility as Sunshine demolish El-Kanemi Wikki topple IfeanyiUbah  to go top of league log Enyimba back to league top