The Zamfara State Police Command has arrested a suspected notorious gun maker and runner alleged to be responsible for the supply of arms to bandits and other criminals in the state. Addressing newsmen at the Command’s headquarters in Gusau, the Police Commissioner, Alhaji Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim, said the suspected gun runner,  Umaru Shehu, was arrested in possession of 11 locally fabricated guns. “The guns meant for supply to bandits in the bush were recovered in his possession. But, after some overwhelming revelations, the suspect has been subjected to discreet investigation with a view to effect the arrest of his accomplices”, he said. Zanna added the command also foiled two planned attacks by bandits on Dan Gamji village and some villages along Bindim-Gobirawa Chali in Dansadau Emirate of Maru Local Government Area. “Our combat readiness, determination and total commitment towards onslaught against vicious crimes in partnership with the state government, traditional rulers, communities and religious leaders is yielding positive results”, he said. The suspect had confessed selling each of the gun made at the rate of N3,500. The Police Commissioner said the command has also arrested 41 suspects in connection with the violent protest in the state last year. “You may recall that on 24th December, 2018 some miscreants embarked on a violent protest in Tsafe, Magazu and Kucheri towns in Tsafe LGA where they blocked federal high way leading to Gusau from Tsafe and set tyres ablaze on the road, a situation that led to burning of Tsafe local government Secretariat.” “Nineteen vehicles, unspecified number of TVS motorcycles, laptops, desktops computers, mattresses and other properties were also burnt by the miscreants; he said. The Police Commissioner said the command also rescued a kidnapped woman named Ayobami Dauda. He said apart from the 11 locally fabricated guns, the command also recovered one AK 47 rifle, one SMG rifle with two magazines, and 32 rounds of live 7.62 ammunition.  