A group under the aegis of Atiku Nationwide Project (ANP) has said that the visit of the presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar to United States of America (USA) has put APC to shame and further exposed that the party was full of propaganda and lies. The group added that the visit also proved that the former Vice President is not a thief as widely claimed by the All Progressives Congress, (APC). The group made the statement through its National Coordinator, Hajiya Aisha Bello in an interview with Daily Trust in Jos on Friday. It recalled that APC has been reported to have said that the former Vice President wouldn’t dare to travel to America because he would be arrested because of his involvement in the alleged corruption case in US. She said, “Atiku’s visit to America has proved that he is not a thief as widely claimed by APC. The visit further exposed that APC is a party full of propaganda and lies. “I want people to know if Atiku is a thief he wouldn’t have been moving freely considering the character of this government that were saying it has zero tolerance for corruption. The group therefore challenged President Muhammadu Buhari and APC to take Atiku to court and prove he is a thief or they should shut up. She said that Buhari is not fighting corruption but fighting oppositions he perceived as a threat to him. The group also tagged Buhari’s government as “retrogressive” and “anti-masses”.
She said, “Buhari’s government is a fraud, retrogressive and anti-masses, because it only brought hardship, hunger and poverty to Nigerians, “In 2015 petroleum was N87 per litre now it is N145. Rice was at N8, 500 now sold at N18, 000, this government is not fighting for the poor, it only brings poverty and hardship.” She said. The group also called on Nigerians to vote en masse for Atiku to enable him get Nigeria working again. Atiku’s many political adventures Atiku meets North East PDP leaders ahead of defection Atiku’s defection to PDP will not affect APC- Odigie-Oyegun