Nigerian telecom subscribers have lost about N12.5 billion to telecom-related financial crimes since smartphones became common in the country few years ago, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said. The malevolent use of modern technology is taking toll on the industry, especially in the area of financial fraud, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, said at the stakeholders forum on Financial Fraud Using Telecoms Platforms in Abuja, yesterday. He said: “As mobile app integration with online payment platforms and other financial resources have improved over the years, the proportion of legitimate trade conducted using mobile phones and other portable devices has also increased. ‘’Little wonder then that mobile channels have been seized by cyber-criminals as a new avenue for fraud. Mobile apps as a whole are now quite easy for hackers and cyber-criminals to hijack or corrupt, making them tools for fraudsters to steal credentials, impersonate genuine account holders, and gain illicit access to funds.’’ He said with fraudsters continuing to do all these, putting better authentication processes in place is vital. ‘’Of course consumers have a responsibility to be vigilant and take their own precautions as well,’’ he also said. Prof Danbatta said the NCC is collaborating with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the police and Department of State Security (DSS) to reduce the incidents of mobile device related financial crimes. He added that driving financial inclusion with telecoms and their networks will allow more Nigerians to be captured in the financial inclusion drive. Also speaking at the event, Minister of Communications Adebayo Shittu assured that government would continue to seek various ways to reduce incidents of cybercrimes. He called on regulators, private sector enterprises and all stakeholders to take a wider and more active role in reducing cybercrimes. NCC engage telecom consumers in Ogun rural community NCC to partner CBN, police on cyber fraud NCC, service providers, banks deliberate on internet fraud