Older  politicians should not to cling on to the positions meant for young people, Coordinator of Not Too Young to Run movement Mr. Samson Itodo said in Abuja yesterday.  Speaking at the 16th Daily Trust Dialogue, Itodo said older politicians should give young Nigerians the opportunity to actualise their political aspirations.  He was one of the guest speakers at this year’s dialogue whose theme was “Youth and Democracy : The Nigerian Challenge.” Itodo said, “I plead that you take intentional steps to invest in the new generation. Do not hold positions that are meant for young people.” On the country’s political landscape, Mr. Itodo said nothing has changed in Nigeria’s political landscape since 1999. He said the only thing that has changed is the innovations by young Nigerians in the area of technology. He said there is a crisis of youth identity in Nigeria as some people in their 40s believe they are youth while the law recognises youth as young people within the age range of 18 to 35 years. He said young people are assets to every society as any society that wants to make progress must invest in the youth. He also said the youth constitutes 60 per cent of Nigerians and that over 80 per cent of those who manage elections on election day are youth, mostly drawn from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). According to Itodo, Nigerians must reflect more on the quality of education and investment on the youth of the country. He lamented the prolonged national strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities [ASUU], which he said  has left students out of universities and is a demonstration of lack of priority on the education of young people. He said all the people that participated in the Not Too Young to Run movement never believed that in their lifetime they would witness the lowering of the age for running for elective positions in the country considering how rigid the constitution is.  He however said the movement was beyond just reducing the age for running for offices  but a clamour for youth involvement in political activities and running of the country. “This is a state where actualising aspiration is a challenge,” he told participants at the Dialogue. He said some young politicians who won party primaries had their names substituted before the lists got to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) because the older generation politicians believed the winners were too young to occupy some political positions. Itodo also said young Nigerians should be allowed to aspire to any position in Nigeria and there should be enabling political landscape for young people to actualise their aspirations. He called on the older generation to advance political mentorship of the new generation to promote young people aspiring for political positions. 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Don't hold positions meant for young people, Itodo tells politicians 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Nigerian youths, threat during campaigns and elections - Yusuf Not-Too-Young-To-Run Movement wants APC to reduce cost of forms