The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari and the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai to stop chasing shadows and direct their attack on Boko Haram insurgents. The coalition, in a statement signed by its Spokespersons, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere expressed displeasure over the recent invasion of Abuja and Maiduguri offices of Daily Trust newspaper and the arrest of some of their journalists by military operatives. He said that rather than chasing imaginary enemies, the president and military should concentrate efforts in finding solution to the insecurity problem in the country. Ugochinyere noted that the press, which is an integral and indispensable element of the society, exists for the society and it derives its powers to function from the constitution, stressing that the siege to the newspaper outfit showed that the president and the ruling party are not committed to free and fair election despite what they say. He said: “As stipulated in Chapter II section 22 of the 1999 constitution, the press, radio, television and other agencies of the mass media shall, at all times, be free to uphold the fundamental objectives contained in this chapter and uphold the responsibility and accountability of the government to the people. “This provision implies that the press shall be a watchdog over the excesses of government, and shall ensure that government delivers it promises to the people. The government, on the one hand, shall ensure that the press informs the people about its programmes and actions.” “The free society which comprises of people of different ethnic, religious, socio-economic backgrounds are also entitled to free information, as such chapter II section 39 subsection (1) of the 1999 constitution states that every person shall be entitled to freedom of expression, including freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference.” “Without prejudice to the generality of subsection I of this section, every person shall be entitled to own, establish and operate any medium for the dissemination of information, ideas and opinions.” He stated that the existence of these constitutional provisions defines the society with many elements such as the media, police, government, armed forces, citizenry, their rights and boundaries of operations.