A faction of Afenifere on Tuesday endorsed the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari for the February 16th presidential election. The faction of the pan Yoruba social-cultural group led by Chief Ayo Fasanmi pronounced the endorsement at a gathering organised by the group to adopt President Buhari, held at International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan in Oyo state. A former senator who represented Ogun East Senatorial district between 1999 and 2003, Senator Olabiyi Durojaye moved the motions for the endorsement at the event. The endorsement was supported by other five leaders of the group including Prince Tajudeen Olusi (Lagos), Professor Bayonile Ademodi (Ondo), Elder Yemi Alade (Ekiti), Chief S. M. Akindele (Oyo), and Sooko Adewoyin (Osun). The Afenifere faction argued that it endorsed Buhari because he had performed well in the last four years of its administration. Present at the event were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Chief Ayo Fasanmi, Deputy Governor of Lagos and Osun States, Mrs. Idiat Adebule and Mrs. Yetunde Onanuga and a former Minister, Demola Seriki who represented Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Traditional rulers at the event include the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adedejuyigbe, Akirun of Ikirun, Oba Abioye Oyebode, Oniye of Iye Ekiti, Oba Adeleye Oni, among others. Members representing Atiba/Afijio/Oyo East/Oyo West, Hon. Akeem Adeyemi, Hon. Asimiyu Alarape, Chief Akin Fasae, and the gubernatorial candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu were also in attendance. Earlier in his remarks, the leader of the group, Chief Fasanmi, said “I want all of you to work and vote for Buhari who has performed very credibly well and I think he deserved second term in the office. “He is the only candidate that is campaigning about a corrupt-free society. I am pleased that all the South West is under the APC fold”. 2019: Afenifere faction endorses Buhari 2019: Afenifere faction endorses Buhari for second term Again, Yoruba leaders renew demand for restructuring