The candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) for the Plateau state governorship election, General Jon Temlong (rtd), has again denied rumours making rounds that he is being sponsored by the Plateau state governor, Simon Lalong. General Temlong was brought in at the last minute by the ADP to replace the earlier unopposed candidate of the party and the only female candidate in the contest, Pastor Margaret Inusa of the Glorious Life International Church in Jos, Plateau state capital. Since then, there have been widespread rumours that he was been sponsored by Governor Lalong and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest in order to share the votes or spoil the chances of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Jeremiah T. Useni who is his (Temlong’s) in-law. But speaking at his campaign flag-off rally in Nefur Arena (mini stadium) in Pankshin Local Government Area of the  state on Monday, General Temlong described himself as the best qualified person for the race following his military and security credentials, adding that there was no way Governor Lalong can look at his face and even contemplate sponsoring him. He said he has track record of conflict prevention and management, and crisis resolution when he was in the military, and that he would bring his experience to bear in resolving the lingering Plateau violence as he has done in some African countries when he was in the military. According to him, the APC has woefully failed Plateau state and has also intensified hunger, poverty and insecurity in the land. He added that the PDP has also failed for the 16 years they were in power before the APC took over. The ADP candidate said he was sure of winning and that upon his swearing in as the governor, no force or element can have the guts to bring weapons to the state and kill innocent people as it was done on a large scale in recent times. He called on the people not to fall for the antics of both the APC and the PDP because they cannot afford to live in penury for another four years as they have lived all these years. He stressed that he would be a governor for all, irrespective of religious, tribe, class and other differences. I’m the best Plateau gov’ship candidate - Temlong ADP flags-off Gubernatorial campaign in Plateau - PHOTOS 2019: ADP replaces governorship candidate in Plateau