The governments of United States and United Kingdom have warned that perpetrators of violence before, during and after the Nigeria’s general elections would face some form of sanctions, including visa restrictions. In a separate statement on Thursday in Abuja, both governments said they would closely monitor actions of individuals and withhold or withdraw visas of those who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence. US and UK governments reaffirmed strong support to genuinely free, fair, transparent, and peaceful electoral process, insisting that they have no preference for any specific candidate or party. “We, and other democratic nations, will be paying close attention to actions of individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during, or after the elections,” said a statement from the US Embassy in Abuja. “We will not hesitate to consider consequences – including visa restrictions – for those found to be responsible for election-related violence or undermining the democratic process.  Under U.S. immigration law, certain violations may also lead to restrictions on family members,” the statement added. The UK government, in a statement by its High Commission in Abuja, said it believe that Nigerians should be able to choose their leaders in an environment free from hate speech and insecurity. The statement said: “We will be deploying an extensive observation mission for the forthcoming elections, including coordinating with the EU’s Election Observation Mission. “Our monitors will in particular be looking out for any attempts to encourage or use violence to influence the elections, including on social media. “We would like to remind all Nigerians that where the UK is aware of such attempts, this may have consequences for individuals. “These could include their eligibility to travel to the UK, their ability to access UK based funds or lead to prosecution under international law. “The UK is a friend and partner of Nigeria.  We hope our continued support will play a role in helping Nigeria take a further step towards consolidating the progress made since democracy returned in 1999.” Train your agents before elections, INEC tells political parties 2019 polls: 40 presidential candidates form new alliance 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord