Youths’ participation in the democratic process can only improve the quality of democracy if the youth are adequately informed, exposed and prepared for public office, Special Adviser to the President on Social Protection Plan Mrs. Maryam Uwais said in Abuja yesterday. She spoke at the 16th Daily Trust Dialogue with the theme “Youths and Democracy: The African Challenge.” Mrs. Uwais said Nigerian youth must adopt a knowledge-driven approach to spur economic development. She said the youth should not be deterred by the high cost of campaign spending and godfatherism. The presidential aide said as shown in the 2015 elections, young people intensified their engagement with public officials and their representatives who prior to 2015, seldom communicated with their constituents. She said, “The youth not only campaigned vigorously for preferred candidates, but they also acted as watchdogs, election workers (INEC-recruited as ad-hoc), anti-corruption crusaders, civil society and social media activists.” She said these avenues opened up a two-way communication line between our young citizens and elected officials that persists till today. Difficult questions are still being asked, she said; corruption is still being unearthed and human rights violations are being exposed on a regular basis. She said, “Digital activism has significantly increased over the years as an alternative mode of political participation. Social media not only increased youth participation in civic affairs, social and environmental issues, accountability has also been promoted in an unprecedented manner.” Mrs. Uwais said the problem of youth participation in governance is a global phenomenon with only two percent of lawmakers across the world being under 30 even though 30 percent of the world population is under the age of 30. She said the reality also remains that despite being more active than their elders in political protests, young people are often less engaged in the overall political processes across Africa, that is in actively voting or running for office. “Where youth are continuously excluded from decision-making processes on matters that affect them and their affairs, the likelihood is there would be a fostering of distrust in the democracy and a demotivation from active participation in the political processes,” she said. The presidential aide said, “The implications of non-inclusion on the youthful population is the bait into violence, radical and predatory activities, rather than embracing and harnessing opportunities for real positive change.” In Nigeria, she said the social investment schemes of President Muhammadu Buhari are targeted at developing the economic and human capital of the youth. She said N-Power job creation initiative has provided employment and skill acquisition for over 500,000 unemployed graduates and 20,000 non-graduates in various spheres of endeavour including health, agriculture, education, tax, community development, field monitoring, and data capture as well as Information Technology. “Statistics from the NBS show that when we engaged the initial batch in 2016 N-Power volunteers, the youth unemployment indices fell from 23.67% to 16.6%. For the 300,000 engaged in 2018, statistics fell from 32.45% to 29.75%,” Uwais said. She said other economic empowerment programmes aimed at improving the wellbeing of citizens, including the youths, are the Government Enterprise Empowerment Programmes (GEEP), which provide loans to over 1.3 million micro and small businesses including traders, artisans, market women and farmers, 46% of which are within the youth age bracket. 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Youth participation in politics will improve governance quality – Maryam Uwais 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Nigerian youths, threat during campaigns and elections - Yusuf Daily Trust Dialogue holds tomorrow