The national chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has said the future of Nigeria does not belong to the retired Generals. Speaking at the party’s presidential rally in Minna on Saturday, the chairman alleged that there was plans by the retired Generals especially former President Olusegun Obasanjo to scuttle the second term bid of President Buhari. He said Obasanjo who desperately sought third term despite the dismal performance of his government has no moral right to kick against the re-election of President Buhari. He reminded Nigerians that the future of the country is the their hands rather the Generals. “Many of the retired Generals are ganging up against President Buhari, that he will not do eight years while they did more than eight years. These ex-generals cannot decide for Nigerians. “I remember they did it before in the past but this time, the plan will not work. The future of Nigeria is not in the hands of retired generals or former heads of state. It is in the hands of the general people,” he said. He alleged that Obasanjo is working with the PDP to rig the elections as they did before, pointing out that “everywhere PDP goes, they are saying the elections will be rigged; I think we need to play those videos of where Obasanjo and Atiku said that election must be do or die in this country.” The chairman pointed that APC did not need to rig the forthcoming election because its performance is enough to return it during the general elections. “We remain a firm believer of one man, one vote, one woman, one vote and one former head of state, one vote,” he noted. He said the crowd in Bauchi, Delta, Kaduna, Edo and other places Buhari visited is enough testimony of the acceptability of the president across the country. In his welcome address, the Niger state APC Chairman, Engineer Jibril Imam, promised the President that the state will give him 101 percent votes during the forthcoming election. Generals who never quit politics Nigeria must not gamble with 2019 elections — Gen. Momah Why I lost in 2015, Jonathan reveals at book launch