Benin Electricity Distribution Company PLC (BEDC) said it has reconnected 42 communities within its franchise states of Delta, Edo, Ondo and Ekiti states which were hitherto without power supply to the national grid, as at November 2018. The Distribution Company (Disco) in a statement said the notion that BEDC has not been responsive to community related issues was incorrect, stressing that it will continue to partner with communities without electricity supply to address it once they follow the steps for engagement. Out of the figure, Delta state has 25 communities reconnected. Among them is Federal Housing Estate in Asaba, and Ewohimi in Agbor. In Edo state, some of the 12 communities include Idunowina, Idokpai, Ikomi, Ugbogui in Okada, and Miracle Centre 2 under GRA, Benin. Ekiti state has two communities Hausa Community in Shasha market area of Ado-Ekiti and Surulere staff school community also in Ado-Ekiti. All the reconnected communities had a customer population of about 20,000 with the highest coming from Ubulu-Uku in Asaba, Delta state which had a customer population of 4,907, followed by Ibusa 2 phase in Koka business unit, with a population of 4,704, while Issele-Uku also in Delta, came third with a customer figure of 3,248. Famoyegun community in Owo, Ondo state had the least customer population of 9 customers hooked to a transformer. The company disclosed that contrary to the insinuations in some quarters that it has not given out a single transformer to communities but collect money or leave customers to provide transformers on their own, BEDC has installed transformers in communities ranging from 50KVA to 2.5MVA since inception across the franchise states. “We do not encourage self-help in arranging for transformers. We advise that customers should only pay their bills and it is BEDC’s responsibility to make power available,” it noted.  BEDC reconnects 42 communities across coverage states Ekiti community in street protest against BEDC, demands pre-paid meters, infrastructure Monarch, regent lead protests against power outage in Ekiti