Niger state government says it is targeting 700,000 cattle for 2019 vaccination campaign across the state. To this end, about N19 million has been spent on the procurement of doses of vaccines. The Commissioner for Livestock and Fisheries, Alhaji Zakari Bawa disclosed this in an interview with North Central Trust yesterday in Minna. He said already the vaccination campaign has been flag off by Governor Abubakar Sani Bello in Tagwai Dam,  Bosso Local Government Area of the state. According to him, this year’s vaccination campaign is targeted at reducing the prevalence of Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) which affects about one third of cattle’s population. “More than 700,000 doses of CBPP doses for cattle, 100,000 doses of PPR for sheep and goats, and 1000 doses of anti-rabies vaccines for cats purchased at the cost of N19 million  would be administered strategically through the year 2019,” he said. He noted that the vaccination would cover the highest recorded prevalence of the disease, about 23 percent in Niger North zone of the state which represents 500,000 of the 2.2 million estimated cattle population in the state. He said that government was intensifying efforts in ensuring that all the 23 grazing reserve in the state are gazetted to make adequate provision to safeguard the large presence of livestock population in the state in addition to checking conflict caused by open grazing. Alhaji Zakari enjoined herders and farmers to continue to live in harmony and desist from taking laws into their hands in the event of any infringement or provocation. He explained that in recognition of the significance of livestock to the people, the administration of Governor Abubkar Sani Bello recreated the ministry in 2017, to reboost the value chains that can be derived in the area to  increase the income and economy of  individual herders and farmers  as well as that of the state. Resurgence of Yellow Fever Senate Leader sponsors vaccination of 1.4m livestock in Yobe Sen Ahmed Lawan sponsors vaccination of 1.4m livestock