A political group on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), National Youths Democratic Network, has asked the Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to beam its searchlight on Ogun state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun’s alleged “reckless commitment of the state’s wealth to perfidious political engagements.” Besides, it asked the ruling party to suspend and withdraw Amosun’s Senatorial ticket for Ogun Central, citing the governor’s alleged anti-party activities. The state coordinator of group, Solanke Hamzat, flanked by other officials, made the demands on Thursday while addressing newsmen in Abeokuta. The group expressed concern over what it called Amosun’s “gross indiscipline and dual political identity”, following the disputed governorship primaries which edged out his anointed candidate, Adekunle Akinlade. Hamzat pointed out that the governor’s decision to back Akinlade who flies the governorship ticket of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) against Dapo Abiodun of the APC, amounts to “serious infraction and insult on our sensibility.” While accusing Amosun of bankrolling “APM project,” the coordinator said the group had written petition to EFCC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to probe the “illegal use of public fund to prosecute selfish agenda.” He equally called on the State Assembly to maintain vigilance by preventing Amosun “from committing the state to any form of borrowing at this critical time.” Daily Trust recalls that Akinlade had variously denied that Amosun is funding his campaign, but admitted that the governor’s “goodwill has been opening doors” in his ongoing ward to ward campaign. The coordinator said: “Our prayers and demands are: “That the APC ticket for Ogun Central Senatorial District being held by Governor Amosun be withdrawn immediately and handed over to more disciplined and dedicated members of the party from the Senatorial District. “That the seat being occupied presently by Hon. Akinlade be declared vacant for a substitution election to be conducted immediately before the general election to fill the vacuum that will be created. “That the Ogun State House of Assembly rise up to this occasion and prevent illegal use of public fund to prosecute selfish agenda by taking a look into the books to determine the level of commitment of public fund to the APM project by Governor Ibikunle Amosun. “We equally call on the State Assembly to maintain vigilance at this hour to prevent Governor Amosun from committing Ogun State to any form of borrowing at this critical time by not approving and doing all within its power to make such financial access impossible. “We call on the EFCC to beam his search light on Governor Amosun and his reckless commitment of Ogun State wealth to perfidious political engagements as we have it now.” Ogun APC crisis: Amosun's bloc gives conditions for peace at meeting with Presidential panel Amosun's candidates, Adebutu lose out, as Abiodun, Bankole make list Ogun: Labour Party lures Amosun's candidate with guber ticket