The Amalgamated Commercial Motorcycle and Tricycle, Owners, Repairers and Riders Association of Nigeria (ACOMORAN), has said its members are not available as thugs for politicians. The Association also say it’s over 10 million members nationwide will only support a candidate who has the interest to empower its members. Speaking at the sidelines of its Mini Convention at the weekend with the theme, “redefining ACOMORAN,” the President of the Association, Babangida Maihula said the leadership of the union is sensitizing its members nationwide to avoid activities that are inimical to the growth of Nigeria. “At this convention, we are also telling our members that we are far above been used as political thugs. We are also not available for activities that are negative to the development of Nigeria,” he said. “So down the grassroots we will tell our members that none of them should avail themselves as political thugs for politicians. Our massive votes will go solely to the candidate of our choice” the President declared. He noted that “ACOMORAN is non-political organization even though during periods like this, we become beautiful brides to politicians.” “But we have not decided on who to support until we are sure of who will address our peculiar needs of our members which basically is based on empowering our members” he noted. Maihula also called on government to slash down the cost of acquiring drivers license of motorbikes to half the cost of acquiring same for motor vehicles as the volume of business isn’t the same. He also called on government to provide single-digit interest rate loans for its members so they could be able to pay the hire purchases on the motorcycle and tricycle they purchase adding that 80 percent of the purchases are on hire purchase. He said based on the awareness campaigns of the Association in partnership with Road Safety and VIO, the recklessness of members of the Association has reduced significantly. Okada riders to embark on ‘mother of all protests’ over extortion by policemen Oyo floats health insurance scheme for Okada riders Deadly return of political thugs