The Federal Government has agreed with the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) on the transmission of a new national minimum wage bill to the National Assembly on Wednesday, January 23, 2019. This is based on a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the Minister of Labour and Employment Chris Ngige and the labour leaders yesterday. Speaking shortly after the signing of the MoU, Ngige said the federal government will try to implement religiously all the processes that would lead it to transmit the bill within the stipulated time. “We have a target time of January 23, 2019 and we hope that all things being equal, the executive will be able to do so. We will take on the statutory meetings of Federal Executive Council (FEC), National Economic Council (NEC) and the Council of State to enable us transmit the bill on the new national minimum wage,” the minister said. He commended the leadership of the labour for their understanding and appealed to them to shelve their protests and strike in line with the signed MoU. Responding, NLC President Ayuba Wabba commended the minister for his conciliatory role which led to the signing of the MoU, adding that it involved a lot of sacrifices and understanding from both sides. “We have spent three days on this issue and we have finally been able to reach a very clear understanding on the processes and the timeline for this bill to be transmitted to the National Assembly. I think we are committed to the process and we hope that this timeline will be respected and we will put this across to our organs to be able to conform to all the details of the Memorandum of Understanding,” Wabba said. The NLC president said further that the congress agreed to the timeline with the understanding that the National Assembly will be back from their recess on the 16th of January. “We said on or before 23rd the bill, all things being equal, must be transmitted to the National Assembly and we hope from there because we know also that the National Assembly are desirous of making sure that workers have a decent wage and they will also be able to do the needful,” Wabba said. Also present during the signing of the MoU were the Minister of Budget and National Planning Udoma Udo Udoma and president of the TUC Bobboi Bala Kaigama.  Workers stage protest nationwide Meanwhile, the organised labour staged nationwide protest yesterday. Addressing the protesters earlier in Abuja, Wabba said it is workers who create the wealth of any nation, which he accused the political elites of feasting on at the detriment of paying workers decent wages and salaries. He said, “Gone are the days where workers will sleep on their rights. The right to a decent wage is a fundamental right. No governor can fix a wage unilaterally without the collective bargaining process. “We are not talking of a uniformed national minimum wage as some states can decide to pay higher than the N30,000, we are only talking of benchmark which no employer of labour both public and private can actually go below,” Wabba said. He urged workers across the nation to march to the door steps of their governors and tell them their position. “And we have also said it clearly that this is the best period to discuss minimum wage; all issue of politics is about workers interest, it is about citizens interest. What is the agenda for workers must be discussed, it cannot be wished away. The primary function of government is about welfare of citizens and therefore no body can take us for a ride,” he said. Wabba accused some state governors of sabotaging the planned implementation of the N30,000 new minimum wage in the country. Speaking during the protest in Lagos yesterday, the labour said there is no going back on their demand, even as it vowed to deal with governors who refuse to comply. Lagos State Chairman of United Labour Congress (ULC), Tokunbo Korodo accused state governors of causing setback for the Federal Government, calling on the presidency to do its part by sending the bill to the National Assembly. According to him, federal government should leave state governors to the union to deal with adding that anti-labour governors will be voted out in the coming elections. In his speech, General Secretary of Joint Action Front (JAF), Biodun Aremu, warned governors against non-implementation of the bill when passed. The protesters delivered a letter to the Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Benjamin Olabinjo, and registered their displeasure over the action of the state government. They also charged Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to address other governors on why they must pay the 30,000 minimum wage.  Minimum Wage: FG, Organised Labour to reconvene Tuesday, 1p.m FG takes final position on new minimum wage Monday – Ngige Minimum wage: NLC blames Buhari for not transmitting bill to N/Assembly