The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) will, today and tomorrow, hold its 265th meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) in Abuja. But as usual, experts say with the prevailing conditions (inflation rate, election spending etc), the CBN will most certainly retain all parameters constant. The CBN for close to two years has retained all MPC parameters constant citing inflation as the core reason even against the wishes of some manufacturers and lenders. But beyond inflation, some industry watchers are also considering the forthcoming elections to play a role in the CBN decisions. Prof. Uche Joe Uwaleke, a professor of Capital Market at Nasarawa State University Keffi said, “Regarding the forthcoming MPC meeting, I see members voting for a hold on the policy parameters. The reality is that in spite of the increase in last month’s inflation rate to 11.4 per cent, the MPC is not likely to further tighten monetary policy in order not to jeopardise the chances of the ruling party in the coming elections.” He continued: “So, in a way, political consideration will be a major factor. This appears to be the trend in many countries regardless of central banks’ independence. Recall that in the run up to the presidential election in US, then chairman of the US Fed Reserve was accused by Donald Trump of deliberately keeping the policy rate low to favour the Democratic Party. “The point here is that the MPC will be mindful of the current political uncertainties and so will go for maintaining the status quo. Of course, the usual justifications with respect to global and domestic factors will be used to support the hold-rates stance.” He also noted that the “uptick in the CPI figure for December should not come as a surprise considering that the month is characterized by increase in the demand for goods especially food.” “It is what I call the ‘Santa Claus’ effect. This explains why the rise in inflation rate from 11.28 percent in November 2018 to 11.44 per cent in December, which came from increase in the volatile food index from 13.30 per cent to 13.56 per cent while the core index remained same at 9.8 per cent,” he stated. “It is also vital to note that the food items that increased in price were chiefly those that are usually in high demand during festive periods such as soft drinks, fish, cereals and tubers. I expect the ‘Santa Claus’ effect to linger into January 2019 which is likely to record a higher inflation rate,” he further noted. According to him, “this will however begin a gradual climb down from February or by March this year. Expected improvements in food supply, power and transport infrastructure in particular as well as stability in exchange rate given the country’s huge external reserves needed to defend the naira will help the government achieve its single digit inflation target of 9.98 percent contained in the 2019 budget.” MPC: Election spending driving up inflation -CBN Experts speak on expectations from today’s MPC meeting Why we can’t bring down interest rates now – CBN