The Senator representing Ogun East at the National Assembly, Buruji Kashamu on Thursday moved to close ranks with his arch-rival in the contest for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial ticket in Ogun state, Ladi Adebutu. To this end, Kashamu has directed all his supporters and associates to work with members of Adebutu-led PDP faction “in the overall interest of the party.” Daily Trust reports that Kashamu made a U-turn barely 24 hours after he issued a statement rejecting Adebutu’s Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO). He had described it as fake. However, in a statement Kashamu personally issued on Thursday in Ijebu Igbo, Ogun state and made available to journalists, he said it was better for the contending groups to work and win together – in the overall interest of the party. He said: “It is true we are in court. But, we are hopeful that the issues will be resolved sooner than later. “However, in the overall interest of the party, it is better and wiser for us to work together as members of the same family pending the resolution of the issues in court. “We may have had our disagreements and issues, and have submitted them to the court for adjudication; yet, we have been talking to one another. “We reckon that whichever way it goes, the court cannot bring about genuine reconciliation and peace. So, we have resolved to be agents of peace and reconciliation. “Let us put aside our ego, prejudices and personal interests, and work together for the party – in the hope that whoever carries the day will work for the party, its members and the generality of the people. “It is in the light of the foregoing that I wish to formally and publicly urge all my leaders, elders and supporters to work with the Lado group within the Ogun state chapter of the PDP ahead of February 16 and March 2, 2019 elections.” Kashamu therefore urged that the ongoing unity meetings and rallies between the two groups within the Ogun state PDP be intensified and held in the 236 wards, 20 local governments and three senatorial districts of the state. Kashamu rejects Adebutu-led PPCO, says it's fake Ogun guber: Court didn't declare anyone PDP guber candidate – Kashamu Sen Kashamu chides PDP