A Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was planning to violently take over the leadership of the National Assembly tomorrow. Addressing a press conference on Sunday in Abuja, the Spokesman of the CUPP and National Chairman of the Action Peoples Party (APP), Chief Ikenga Ugochinyere said the Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu who are both of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been marked for arrest Monday night. He said Senators Ahmed Lawan, Godswill Akpabio and Hope Uzodimma, according to the plan, would be announced “factional” Senate President, Deputy Senate President and Senate Leader, respectively. He said Gbajabiamila and Abdulminim Jibrin were set for the offices of “factional” Speaker and Deputy Speaker while Ali Ndume, Omo-Agege, Dr. George Akume, Abdullahi Adamuand others were allegedly part of the move. He said Saraki, Ekweremadu, Dogara, Ben Bruce, Dino Melaye and others would be stopped from assessing the National Assembly, leading to what he termed collapse of constitutional democracy in the country. “The CUPP is once again raising alarm, having received incontrovertible facts over a fresh plot that has been hatched and which has received the go-ahead nod of President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government for a violent, undemocratic, unlawful, illegal and demonic takeover of the leadership of both chambers of the National Assembly on Tuesday, 29th January, 2019. “The APC-led federal government is of the firm belief that Tuesday, is their best and last chance to effect the changes as their control of the judiciary will be put to use to ensure there is no reversal of justice for the present occupants. “The Senate will reconvene on Tuesday, to discuss the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The APC is ready to do whatever it takes to destroy the very fulcrum of our constitutional democracy on Tuesday, and have vowed, it is tomorrow (today) or never. “The judicial coup which they believed was supposed to be more difficult went very easily beyond their imagination hence, the need to complete the takeover of the National Assembly immediately so that the distraction of the election campaigns will be put to use,” the CUPP claimed. CUPP, APC trade words over NASS resumption PDP alleges fresh plot to arrest Saraki, Ekweremadu Crisis: Senate defiant, House bows to party