The National Security Adviser (NSA), Mohammed Monguno, has warned politicians against arming bandits and terrorist to scuttle the 2019 elections. Monguno stated this before going into a closed door meeting with state governors at the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) office, yesterday in Abuja. The meeting with the governors which was convened on the invitation of the NSA also had in attendance the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu. He said security reports available to him indicated that certain politicians were arming bandits and terrorists with plans to plunge the country into crisis over failed election ambition. “Recent intelligence reports have indicated plans by some individuals and groups to instigate violence during and after the coming elections,” he said. “Reports reaching me have revealed that some individuals that are uncertain of their fate in the elections are plotting to precipitate wide spread violence aimed at scuttling the conduct of the polls,” he added. He said, “Their strategy is to cause crisis that could snowball into endless crises for the government and citizens.” “There are indications that these unscrupulous elements are already mobilizing merchants of violence, including armed bandits and terrorists to orchestrate violence during the elections in several states of the federation. Although he did not mention names, Monguno warned against any act that can destabilize the country, adding that the interest of one individual or group is not greater than Nigeria. He said as chief executive officers of states, their primary function as governors is the security and welfare of the people. He said, “No pseudo or quasi security outfits, such as vigilante or under any guise, is allowed to participate in election security duties.” “The Government will demonstrate zero tolerance to political thuggery and illegal bearing of fire-arms…our doors is always open to collaborate and act proactively to maintain the sanctity of Nigeria,” he stated. In a communiqués read out to journalists after the meeting, the Chairman of the NGF, Governors Abdulaziz Abubakar of Zamfara state said the NGF seeks stronger synergy with the heads of security agencies in their states to strengthen pre-emptive measures of curbing violence. He said the governors are concerned about the proliferation of arms and ammunition, and the spate of kidnapping across the country. He said, the Forum recommends stronger collaboration and intelligence sharing among security agencies to ensure all lives and property are protected, regardless of individuals or group affiliations.  2019 election: Don't arm thugs, NSA warns politicians NSA warns politicians against breaching electoral act 2019 polls: NSA warns security agencies against partisanship