Minna town was completely locked down yesterday, following the visit of President Muhammad Buhari to Niger State. The president was in the state in continuation of his campaign ahead of the February election. Buhari first visited Baro Port, where he commissioned the multiple million naira complex. He said if successive governments at the federal level had implemented the comprehensive master plan for the development of the Nigerian Inland Waterways across 28 states of the country initiated by the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF), under his watch, the recurring accidents experienced on Nigeria roads could have been avoided. Also speaking, Chairman of the Nigerian Inland Water Ways (NIWA), Olorunnimbe Mamora said the Port has quay length of 150 metres, cargo stacking yard of 7,000 square meters, a transit shed of 3,600 square meters and estimated capacity of 5,000 TEU at a time. He said some of the installed machinery are; the 84-ton mobile harbour carne, one reach stacker, and three forklifts of varying capacities. Other facilities according to him include the administrative block, water treatment plant, power generating plant and staff quarters. And in Minna, the state capital, there was gridlock on major streets leading to the Trade Fair complex venue of the presidential campaign rally. The situation worsened when the president arrived the venue of the rally at about 12 pm with Minna/ Suleja road totally impassable. Shouts of ‘Sai Baba’ Buhari; ‘Buhari Muke so’ rented the air when the president’s convoy was sighted at the venue. Speaking at the rally, President Buhari promised massive infrastructural development when he is returned, while also promising completion of on-going projects across the country. The president promised to reactivate the Minna/Baro standard gauge and complete the Lagos/Kano railway line which would pass through Minna. Buhari also said he would expedite action on the Bida/Lapai/Lambata; Minna/Suleja dual carriage way; Mokwa/Jebba road amongst others. He also pledged early completion of Zungeru Hydro dams and Auna Dam in Magama Local Government Area of the state. Buhari promises massive infrastructural development if re-elected After 9 years, Lokoja inland port still a mirage Buhari commissions Baro Inland Water Port, first in northern Nigeria