The Director, Publicity, Presidential Support Committee (PSC), Dr Kelani Mohammed, said yesterday in Abuja that the character and achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari are enough to speak for him in the ongoing re-election campaigns. Dr Mohammed, who briefed journalists in Abuja along with PSC Director of Security, Major General Garba Audu (rtd), among other key officials of the organisation, said after the computation of the number of voters released by the electoral body, President Buhari would win with a margin. “INEC brought out the total voters in this country – about 84 million. From our computation, by the grace of God, we are going to deliver over 60 million votes. To make sure that we deliver, we are synergising with the campaign council. That is why the campaign council is co-opting some of our members. “Our people are going around to ensure that those that elected President Buhari in 2015 are not derailed. We are moving seriously to make sure that the guarantee comes to pass. “They (the opposition) are shivering. They know they are not going to win the election.  Nigerians are watching. With the development this government has brought in almost three and a half years today, the electorate are watching. Definitely, they will choose this government. The president’s character and achievements will speak for him,” he said. Retired Maj-Gen Audu, who said the PSC was mandated to coordinate all the support groups, numbering over 750, added that since its inauguration, the group had been embarking on rallies, door-to-door, person-to-person, and market campaigns across the zones, states, local governments, and wards. He expressed optimism that President Buhari would win again going by his ability to bring development, progress, and peace, especially in the crisis-ridden areas. He said the PSC was committed to ensuring victory for all APC candidates, starting from the president down to councilorship. “You have seen what has happened within the period that Mr President has come in. Nigeria is on the right direction. That is why we have to key in until the next level. By the time the president has gone four years that we are expecting him to get, I’m sure all of us will see that Nigeria has been put on the line of development with other countries trying to develop,” said the retired general. Ex-PDP chairman leads Buhari/Osinbajo support committee in Lagos No vacancy in Aso Rock — Buhari aides PDP not doing enough for Jonathan’s re-election— Campaign committee