The Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, has said that the priority of the government is to make everybody, especially civil servants, happy through its policies. Egbeyemi said part of the ways of fulfilling this promise was the payment of the one month salary arrears owed by the immediate past Ayo Fayose administration to civil servants and commencement of payment of severance allowance to former political office holders. This, he said, was aside the regular payment of salary the Fayemi government since its coming to power in October last year. The Deputy Governor, in a statement yesterday by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, said the gesture was in fulfilment of Kayode Fayemi’s promise to make the life of Ekiti people better and ensure that all and sundry feel the positive impact of the government. Egbeyemi spoke while addressing religious leaders, political office holders and civil servants at the Government House, Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. The deputy governor revealed that government was making sacrifices to ensure that workers were paid as and when due, which he explained was the motivation behind paying them two salaries within the space of one week. According to him, the Fayemi administration has more goodies to give to the people of Ekiti State in the areas of attracting investment, employment of qualified citizens to civil service, provision of social amenities and economic empowerment, among others. Egbeyemi said, “During our campaign, we made some promises that we have started fulfilling. Our enemies campaigned against us, they said we would sack teachers but we have not sacked anybody. Rather, we have started to make them happy and God will make them happy. “For those who worked with us who were not paid severance allowance by the previous government, some people must have been receiving alerts. We will pay severance allowance. It may not be at a time but in instalments. “Within few days of coming to power, the governor signed an Executive Order cancelling levies in public schools and also released N200 million to teachers as car and housing loans. That is the priority of my governor. God will give us the power to meet the expectations of our people. However, I want you to know that we cannot satisfy everybody at the same time.” Fayemi promises Ekiti workers’ better welfare package LG pensioners protest exclusion from Nov. payment Ikere monarch asks for recognition from Fayemi