The chairman, Independent Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Suleja- Abuja unit, Alhaji Salihu Abdullahi Butu, in this interview, speaks on fuel subsidy, equalization payments, NNPC’s sole importation of fuel, among others. Excerpts:  The DPR recently organised a stakeholders meeting where issues of regulatory compliance in the oil and gas sector, among others, were discussed. What are some of the major issues DPR and NNPC need to tackle to ensure the sustainability of fuel supply in the country? The issue of regulatory compliance is not restricted to marketers alone. It has to do with the executives. There are many policies initiated by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration which include those ensuring adequate and sustainable supplies. The president has directed the NNPC to ensure products are available all over the country. The NNPC, therefore, has to import enough products to meet the fuel needs of Nigerians. As a result of that directive, we have seen the availability of the products. December came and passed without any kind of scarcity. That is how the political will of the president saved the situation. What is the implication of NNPC’s sole importation of petrol on marketers? NNPC has taken over the sole responsibility of importation away from third-party importers. One of the implications is that the burden of commercial banks interest was also taken away from the importers. If this policy is sustained, I’m sure fuel scarcity is going to be a thing of the past. The marketers as well as the NNPC which is the manager of the industry, need to play their roles in ensuring the smooth execution of the policy. The Department for Petroleum Resources (DPR) on its part, is playing its role effectively. They try as much as possible to make things very easy for our marketers in terms of licensing. The DPR has also made it very easy because you can get your licence online. The DPR should sustain this feat by strict supervision of activities in the depots where marketers load the products. It has to ensure that the products are sold at the official rate. DPR officials should enforce official sale rate, at that level before coming down to the filling stations, and enforce the sale at all times. However, there are some areas the NNPC needs to do more in terms of loading the products imported into the country. NNPC should also make sure that it remits what is due for the Petroleum Equalisation Funds (PEF) without delay. If that is done, the PEF will also pay the marketers in time. We want the PEF to actualize its promise that marketers will get their claims paid within two weeks maximum. That promise has not been met over five years after the implementation of the e-payment system. We want a situation whereby when the product is loaded, tracked at the loading point, tracked at the dispatching point, within a week one should get his money for the transport. That will make business much easier for us. On the part of the Pipelines and Product Marketing Company (PPMC), I will say they are doing well in terms of getting more supplies now. But the process of the payment and the loading needs to be improved upon. PPMC needs to reorganise the process of programming and loading. Marketers need to know when they are supposed to load their products, and so on. There should be a programme where marketers can be scheduled for their loading to enable them to know when the products are due for loading. At the same time, the payment system needs to be looked into. We are in a digital era now. Look at what the DPR has done. Within the comfort of your room, you can process your licence and get it done without hassles. Why can’t the NNPC do so on their payment system? I will suggest they borrow a leaf from NIPCO Plc, where each marketer was registered and allocated an account. This makes it easy for marketers to transfer funds to their accounts. With NIPCO Plc, whenever you are loading, they are debiting the cost of your loading real time. Whenever you are programmed to load, or your truck is in the process of loading, the cost of the product will be deducted from your account. I think NNPC needs to do the same. We should not be taking a long process of payment procedures, moving from one point to another. For instance, your payment process begins from Suleja, Kaduna, and then Musomi, before you are loaded with the products. In the event of a change in price, the whole process has to start afresh. Instead of this needless bureaucracy, a central account should be created where accountants across all the depots in the country should be able to access and process your payments whenever you are loading. President Buhari has presented the 2019 budget proposals to the National Assembly. He is proposing $1billion (N360 billion) for fuel subsidy. What is your take on that? You know the landing cost of the product is high. I see the proposal as part of the willingness of government to end fuel scarcity in the country. Another factor is that the government is bent on ensuring that Nigerians don’t pay more than N145 per litre for the product. This informed the president’s subsidy proposal. Nigerian refineries are still not working at their optimal level.  How is that affecting the supply of the product to the people? The issue of refineries not working to the optimal level results into the high volume of importation that we are doing now. It also has to do with the high volume of subsidy payment. Although the Federal Government and NNPC are working to make sure that those refineries are fixed. I learned that Kaduna refinery will soon be on. More needs to be done to make sure that if these refineries are on, they should be sustained. I appeal to NNPC that whenever a refinery is on, our depot should be considered for pumping the product through a pipeline. The distance between my depot in Suleja to Kaduna is not more than 100km. We have to monitor those pipelines to make sure those products come in safely. We, as a body, are ready to partner with NNPC and all other stakeholders to make sure that we safeguard the pipelines. Pumping the products directly to the depots will reduce the burden on the equalization payment. I also want to use this medium to say the policy by the Petroleum Equalization Fund (PEF) that someone cannot use tanks of 50,000 to 60,000 litres is also not fair. Their duty is to make sure they ascertain whatever you have loaded and delivered irrespective of the size and number of your tanks provided they can accommodate the products. When they ascertain the quantity you have loaded, you should be paid accordingly. It is also not fair for them to be cutting people’s money unnecessarily. For a while now, we have suffered underpayment from PEF. We don’t know the reason for the underpayment. They never call us for a single meeting to discuss any new policy, nor tell us the reason for the underpayment. As law-abiding citizens, we have written several complaints to them. We are still waiting their reaction. If nothing is done, we will take all lawful means to ensure that we recover our money. We spend a lot of money to transport those products and to get our due payment is becoming a problem with part of it being cut down. The fluctuating cost of diesel, for instance, is not translated into the cost of maintenance of our vehicles, among others. We are now waiting for them to do the needful. If they fail to do so, we will take all the lawful means to get our money. Fuel crisis may reach new year Fuel scarcity spreads to states, litre sells at N165 It is the subsidy, stupid