Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel says only God will guarantee violence-free elections in the state this year. The governor spoke in Uyo yesterday at the annual State Solemn Assembly themed “You are God, You Alone”. He said: “​In the next one-and-half months, my dear people, we’ll go to the polls to elect our leaders, and as the theme of this event so eloquently states, it is God alone that will determine who governs us; it is He alone who will determine the course of our growth and development; it is He alone who will guarantee us violence-free elections; it is He alone who will shame the plans and the machinations of mere mortals.” Emmanuel asked the people of the state to be wary of the plot by the opposition to take over the state, alleging that they had adopted lies as a campaign strategy. The governor also stated that no plan to deploy the federal might to the state would stand. He said: “This land is named after God, Akwa Abasi Ibom State and He alone dictates, arranges, manages, defines and shapes what happens here. No instrument of man can change the course of God’s plans for our State and our people, no devices of man or the naysayers, their lies, their much vaunted warsaw saw war battle cry, and their promise to deploy federal might to forcefully take over our state will stand. “My dear Akwaibomites, it is shameful that our so-called leaders can sit and cut deals to mortgage the future of Akwa Ibom State and imperil the future of our children just to gain power and they have the audacity to come and tell you they are working to protect your interest. “Some mischief makers, who once had the opportunity to embark on projects that directly affect our lives, but instead chose to indulge in monuments that today stand as shameful relics of an era of megalomania, would come and try to play God and think our people are so gullible to be sold loads of lies again. “Everything we have done has been to improve the standard of living of our people; from our investments in agriculture, to the empowerment of our youths and women, to education, these are needed values in our lives, yet the opposition will tell you these great achievements do not exist.”