Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base (LADOL) says it made the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG’s) list of companies to inspire Africa in 2019 because it met the group’s conditions of recording an average compound annual growth rate of 46% up from 16% last year. It said it also made the list because it employed at least 350 people with an average compound annual growth rate of 25 percent. The London Stock Exchange Group adjudged LADOL and other companies nominated “as crucial to the future of the African economy capable of driving transformative economic growth in their home countries, Africa and beyond.” A statement from the company, yesterday, quoted David Schwimmer, Chief Executive Officer of LSEG as saying: “London Stock Exchange Group’s ‘Companies to Inspire Africa’ report showcases inspirational and entrepreneurial businesses from across the African continent, representing a wide variety of industries and countries. “It is particularly encouraging to see the increasing influence of women in leadership roles in these fast-growing companies, playing a pivotal role in shaping the future of African business. “These high growth companies have the potential to transform the African economy and become tomorrow’s job creators. “At LSEG, we are committed to helping companies realize that potential and we are pleased to highlight and celebrate the company success stories behind one of the world’s fastest growing markets.” This is the second edition of this prestigious report which identifies Africa’s most inspirational and dynamic private, high-growth companies. The report aims to give these companies global recognition and attract foreign investment into the continent. The Managing Director of LADOL, Amy Jadesimi said: “LADOL is honoured to be included in London Stock Exchange’s (LSE) list of Companies to Inspire Africa. We thank the entire LSE team for all their hard work in compiling the report and today’s launch, at which I was proud to be invited to speak. “LSE’s high-profile focus on real indigenous private sector companies across the African continent is an important step in highlighting the fact that Africa is already home to a thriving and growing number of leading companies. “The broad range of companies represented show how shallow investment understanding of our current market is and how many opportunities there are for investment today. We look forward to working with the LSE and cooperating with the other indigenous companies highlighted,” the MD stated. She explained that investment in Africa is about the market case, noting that instead of eking out low returns from investments in developed markets, international investors should focus on the many hugely lucrative market opportunities across Africa. 9 Nigerian companies listed $14.2bn on London Stock Exchange Why I invested $600m in Tanzania – Dangote Dangote to build cement plants in 18 African countries