Some disgruntled members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ‎in Bauchi State, five opposition parties and other stakeholders, yesterday, formed a coalition to defeat Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar in the coming election. The coalition, which comprised some APC elements, opposition‎ PDP, PRP, GPN, PDM and ACD, made the statement at a press conference in Bauchi. Speaking at the conference, elder statesman Alhaji Bello Kirfi said the stakeholders formed the coalition to ensure the defeat of Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar in the March 2 election. Those at the press conference included the Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, governorship candidates of PDP, Senator Bala Mohammed, PRP, Professor Mohammed Ali Pate and GPN, Barrister Mohammed Jumba. Others included an APC governorship aspirant, Dr Ibrahim Yakubu Lame, Bauchi South senatorial aspirant, Barrister Ibrahim Zailani‎, Alhaji Sanin Malam, State PRP chairman, Shehu Barau Ningi, State PDP chairman, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam and others. According to Bello Kirfi, “this unprecedented move was taken after‎ careful review and consultations on the abysmal performance of the APC government in Bauchi State over the last four years. “The stakeholders comprised influential political as well as community leaders from the geopolitical zones of Bauchi State,” he said. He alleged that the APC administration in Bauchi had brought widespread poverty, youth unemployment and lacked vision for infrastructural development in all sectors. “Given these overwhelming evidence of poor ‎governance and gross incompetence, the stakeholders had expected the APC national leadership to encourage and support the people’s yearning for genuine change through due process and internal party democracy. “Unfortunately, the APC failed and compounded its ‎mistake by further misguiding Mr President to recently recognise Gov. M.A Abubakar as the APC candidate,” he said. “This blunder by the national leadership of APC has heightened the risk of Mr. President losing significant numbers of his loyal followers in Bauchi State,” he said. According to the coalition, many ‎members of the APC remained in the party because of the president’s integrity, but when their hope of remedial action was dashed, they had no choice but to form the coalition to defeat the party’s governorship flag bearer in the state. They promised to coordinate their efforts in their campaigns and form a united front and a mutual support to protect their votes. The coalition further stressed that they would expand their frontiers to include other parties and stakeholders interested in the development of the state. However, members of the coalition did not identify which political party or candidate they would support to oust the sitting governor. Bauchi deputy speaker, senate aspirant, others dump APC for PRP Governorship candidates, other stakeholders plot APC defeat ‎in Bauchi 2019: NNPP is ‘stealing the show’ in Bauchi