An unidentified man was yesterday lynched at the Igirigiri area of Ado Ekiti by an angry mob for allegedly harvesting human faeces for consumption. The man, said to be in his 30s, was reportedly apprehended on Matthew Street and led round parts of the state capital by the mob, numbering over 200, with sticks, stones and other dangerous weapons before they lynched him at Igirigiri, Odo Ado. Witnesses told journalists at the scene of the incident that the man was suspected to be a ritualist who was gathering the faeces to consume it. When newsmen arrived at the scene of the lynching, the victim had been partly burnt and lying dead on the street. The man was said to have been sighted by an unidentified elderly woman, who raised the alarm which prompted youths of the area to apprehend him. They then stripped him naked. He, while being beaten, reportedly sought help by mentioning some clergymen he claimed to know in the town. The mob, it was gathered, followed him to a white garment church he was said to have mentioned at the Odo Ado area, but when they couldn’t meet the clergyman he had named, he allegedly took to his heels. The mob, however, pursued and caught up with him at the Red Roof junction. The mob pulled down the roof of the church and destroyed its property, including all they found at an adjoining room the neighbours had described as “the church office.” None of the witnesses at the neighbourhood could identify the man, with all of them directing newsmen to Matthew Street, saying “that’s where the whole thing started.” The witnesses at the Red Roof refused to speak with newsmen, claiming they could be victims of police raid if security agents arrived to investigate the incident. The Public Relations Officer of the Ekiti State police command, Mr Caleb Ikechukwu, could not be reached for his comments on the incident as his mobile handset was switched off. Mob beats up 84-year-old suspected kidnapper Mob beats up 84-year-old suspected kidnapper in Ondo When lynching  becomes a way of life