As the federal government borrowed N6.16 trillion of the N8.49 trillion pension assets being managed by the PFAs and others under the supervision of the National Pension Commission, the focus in this article is on the sources of joy for the retired, aged and weak in the community. These sources include having people around to comfort, entertain them and ensure their general wellbeing. This is an ideal, or so it seems, nowadays. The extended family system thrives. It has inherent mechanisms for looking after the elders, although some may say that the extended family system is crumbling, destroyed by the infusion of new cultural practices that make caring for the elderly a mechanical, impersonal and commercial activity, without genuine human touch is missing. Imagine life in an old people’s homes managed by younger persons who spend more time on their social media habits than caring for their clients. The close-knitted character of African families made it possible for large clans to have farmers, traders, herders, scholars and members knowledgeable in the ancestral wisdom that harmonises the various social and economic activities for the benefit of all. In such settings, elders were treated with respect and dignity, pampered materially, and constantly consulted on sensitive issues that require good judgment, tact and the benefit of hindsight after so many years of witnessing, organizing or participating in events.  The elders are pillars of the community, and its rallying point, at all times.  This contributes in making elders happy, useful as well as physically and psychologically healthy. The grand children of the clan regularly gather around their grandparents, joking, playfully taunting and laughing with them. This type of jovial socializing is important for the mental and general wellbeing of the pensioner, retiree or older persons.  Their lives in this kind of setting will never be boring. This is particularly common in villages and small towns where the retired and their youngsters sit under big trees or canopies made of wooden pillars and thatched with termite-resistant grasses. Such canopies remain cool in the tropical, scorching sun, and withstand strong winds despite their apparent fragility. Even the seating arrangement was done to show genuine respect to the elders, the lights of the community. They are definitely distinguished in character and entirely honourable in their behaviour. Grandparents, who are invariably pensioners, not necessarily the type  receiving monthly cash stipend, but elders who have contributed in the material wellbeing of the clan for most of their lives, enjoy preferential treatment when it comes to sharing delicacies like meat and specially prepared food during ceremonial and other special occasions. The views of retirees are respected and sought after in the traditional setting, where they are regarded as community leaders, counselors and the custodians of traditions that moderate conducts in public glare and in seclusion.  While playing this role, the elders remain relevant and active in communal affairs and an integral part of the formal and informal leadership that makes the community peaceful.  It equally keeps them busy, healthy and happy. When the other day I heard one of the leaders of the Nigeria Police Pensioners Association saying that members of his group are “retired but not tired” during a courtesy call on a high-level public officer, I smiled silently and told myself that if I were that gentleman, I will give priority to deploying my security training and experience to lead like-minded persons in strengthening security and public safety in my community.  This will be in line with the expected roles of elders or retirees in African societies, whether with or without the sort of specialization the gentleman has. And it may by far be more valuable for him than canvassing for any ad hoc job. It is nice that many pensioners or retirees nowadays devote part of their time to community service. Any retiree not doing so should think again.  Micro Pension Scheme: Features, prospects, concerns Preventing Pension Fraud Preventing pension fraud