Global warming and human activities is past changing the chilly atmosphere of Mambilla Plateau in Sardauna Local Government Area, North- East Trust finding has revealed. The area, which is a tourists haven because of its friendly weather and couple with good scenery is being threatened by huge logging, bush burning illegal mining and increase in  human population. Inaddition, because of increased human population the area now as to cope with pollution because of increased use of generators and vehicles. Mambilla Plateau is one of the coldest with an elevation of 2419 meters above sea level, which makes it the highest point in the country. It has a day temperature of 19c while the night temperature can go as low as 11c. Residents of the area said because of the chilly nature of the environment they hardly use air conditioners or refrigerator. However, they said the situation has been changing as they have noticed that the temperature is now much warmer. A resident of the area, Mallam Musa Kaka told North – East Trust that in the past  people that came from the lower land hardly spend one week in the Plateau because of the cold. He said it was impossible to bath without  cold water and all their rooms have to be kept warm because of the chily weather. “We used to stay for days without  seeing the sun as cloud always covered the sky and it used to rain for weeks without break in the past” he said. Another resident, Mr john Bala said there was a rapid change  in Mambilla Plateau temperature. He said the area was getting warmer now to the level of feeling the sun’s heat. Bala blamed  the climate change which has led  to global warming and human activities in the area for the change in weather. He said the  area has experienced unprecedented population growth, increase of vehicles and generating plants which emit carbon  as well as destruction of forest and bush burning in the last decade. “Before the road from Mayo- Selbe to Gembu was constructed only few vehicles and motor cycles ply the area and there were only few generating plants  but now  there are  thousands of vehicles, and motorcycles and generators all over the towns and villages in the plateau” Bala said. He said trees in forests from Nguroje to Gembu and other places were being cut down for timber and cooking adding that the area had become the main source of timber for the entire North- East thereby destroying the eco system in the area. An environmentalist,  Jibrin Dauda,  told North East Trust that if the environmental degradation was not stopped the area will suffer. He said over grazing, bush burning logging and illegal mining  must be checked to save the plateau. The Taraba state ministry of environment has said that it was aware of. climate changes taking place on the plateau. The Director of Forestry  and Wild Life, Mr Joseph. Musa,  said there was massive deforestation and population explosion  on the plateau which was some of the key factors responsible of climate changes in the area. Also speaking on the issue, the Executive Director Taraba State Environmental Protection Agency, Mr. Julius Butu, told North East Trust that the agency had noticed the changes in the climate of Mambilla. He attributed this to deforestation and mining activities taking place on the plateau, adding that population explosion and a rise in the number of vehicles has led to increase carbon dioxide in the atmosphere leading to warm atmosphere being experience in the area. Butu said that the agency would soon embark on awareness campaign against deforestation and improper waste management. He commended the federal government for its commitment in executing the Mambilla hydro-power project which he said   would  use renewable energy which is environment friendly. Gembu: An Untapped Nature’s Gift Taraba: Searching for  pathway to glorious tourism Climate change: Who can save the world?