Arik Air has now returned to profitability and an efficiently run company about two years under the management of a receiver manager. This clarification is coming on the heels of media reports in some quarters suggesting that Arik Air cannot attract investors. But in a swift reaction to one of the publications (not Daily Trust), Mr. Oluseye Opasanya, SAN, the Receiver Manager, Arik Air, said the company is now a going concern and investors are indicating interest in buying stakes in it. “As may be recalled, at the time AMCON appointed a Receiver Manager, Arik’s debts were in excess of N300 billion. The airline had lost the confidence of key vendors, maintenance repair organisations and part suppliers. “These creditors are both local and international. Consequently, resolution has entailed several hours of local meetings and international travels to forestall service disruptions and aircraft seizure/arrest. Critical vendor relationships have been revamped and trade lines restored. Arik now enjoys the confidence of partners,” he stated. He said the “airline is being run under unique governance arrangements that have ensured that costs are prudently optimised and that all departments of the company function in an orderly and professional manner.” “It is gratifying to report that the airline’s Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) was negative in 2017 but in 2018 was significantly positive. The financial trajectory has been positive, proving that a professionally run airline has a future in Nigeria,” he said Mr. Opasanya also noted that “following the impressive performance of Arik Air in receivership, local and foreign investors are showing keen interest in the airline.” “Past attempts to resolve the debt issue with legacy shareholders have been frustrated by their insincerity exemplified by the presentation of fake and bogus investment proposals (false financial backing), confirming the lack of corporate governance and diligence in their approach to business,” he also explained “We assure the flying public that Arik in receivership is operationally sound, professionally run and safe and will continue to be a major and dominant carrier in the aviation industry,” he said.