A report released by Nigeria’s Presidential Delivery Unit has shown that the North West is the region with the highest awareness of the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programmes (N-SIPs). The report of the unit, situated in the Office of the Vice President, released yesterday, showed that the programmes are most popular in the northern states, especially in the North-West, with the highest average awareness of 73.8 per cent. An analysis of the report showed that the programmes are least popular in the South-South and South-East, where average awareness is 63.8 per cent and 62.1 per cent respectively. The survey, which included respondents from three randomly selected local governments in each state of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, had a sample size of over 6,000 Nigerians who shared their perception and experience of the current administration’s social welfare efforts. The National Survey on the Awareness of Social Investment Programmes found that while national awareness of each programme is above 50 per cent, N-Power – which focused on job creation and employment, at a rate of 81.3 per cent – is the most popular programme. Similarly, the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (66.3 per cent) and the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme (67.4 per cent) are equally popular at the national level, while just 53.1 per cent of respondents are aware of the Conditional Cash Transfer programme. The report further showed that in each of the six geo-political zones, average collective awareness of all N-SIPs is over 60 per cent. As with programme awareness at the zonal level, collective support of the programmes is strongest in the North-West and North-Central at 95.9 per cent and 92.4 per cent respectively. In the other zones, average support ranges from 88.8 per cent to 90.8 per cent. Commenting on the report, Head of the Presidential Delivery Unit, Mr. Tunde Osibamowo, said, “What we find most interesting, apart from the relatively high level of awareness of the Social Investment Programmes, is that respondents almost universally – that is, about 9 out of 10 Nigerians, believe that the programmes are very good initiatives, even when asked if they would prefer the government to use the money for other programmes.” Osibamowo said the report indicated that Nigerians as a people support the government’s provision of direct help to the poor, vulnerable and elderly. Police officers, judges most corrupt in Nigeria – NBS Osun ranks highest in female genital mutilation – UNFPA FG urged to implement nutrition policy