The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun state, Senator Buruji Kashamu has accused a former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan of unleashing operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on him in 2015 over his refusal to replace the then gubernatorial candidate of PDP, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka. Kashamu said he was pressured to replace Isiaka with the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole. He spoke on Wednesday at Ilaro during his meeting with Yewa Traditional Council in Ogun West Senatorial district, as part of his ongoing campaign. The Senator representing Ogun East said his commitment to the age-long agitation for power shift to Ogun West, made him resisted pressure to drop Isiaka who hails from the zone for Bankole, from the Central. Daily Trust reports that Ogun West remains the only region yet to produce Governor since the creation of the state in 1976. Kashamu told the monarchs that he joined the governorship race following Ogun West’s inability to produce a single candidate between Isiaka who flies the ticket of African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). He promised to accord the traditional institution its rightful place if emerged as governor. Kashamu also vowed to ensure independent resource control by the council chairmen for the development of the grassroots. He said: “In 2011, I supported your very illustrious son, General Tunji Olurin. In 2015, I rolled all my support behind another illustrious son of Yewaland, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI). “When I was fighting for Yewa agenda, I took GNI (Isiaka) to the national level up to the President. Many politicians of Yewa extraction were against me. They said Yewa is not capable; Yewa is not united. They were saying this before the President. “I swear with the name of God, it was all because of my support for Yewa cause and refusal to replace GNI (Isiaka) with Bankole as requested by President Jonathan in 2015, which was the reason he (Jonathan) sent operatives of NDLEA to arrest me. “If I am telling lies, let God judge me.” NDLEA to Kashamu: No court stopped your extradition 2019: Bankole, Odebiyi, Adebutu, others jostle to replace Amosun PDP convention: Kashamu, Daniel trade words