The National Council of State (NCS), presided by President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday approved N27,000 as the country’s new minimum wage. However, the Federal Government would pay N30,000 to its workers as minimum wage. Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, while briefing State House correspondents at the end of the meeting, said with the approval of the council, a New Minimum Wage bill would be transmitted to the National Assembly today for passage into law. The organised labour had insisted on a N30,000 minimum wage as proposed by the Ama Pepple tripartite committee, while the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) proposed N24,000. The labour had threatened to embark on a nationwide strike next week if the executive failed to transmit the new minimum wage bill to the National Assembly. Ngige said the N27,000 wage will cover employers of labour with minimum of 25 workers, and that no employer could pay below, except higher if so decided. He said the proposed minimum wage has now been approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), the National Economic Council (NEC) and the Council of State. “These three organs have permitted Mr. President now to transmit to the National Assembly the new National Minimum Wage Bill. “Thus, in consonance with the fact that the issues of national minimum wage prescription is in the exclusive list, second schedule, item 34 and being on that list, it is not a job that can be done by the executive alone. “So, a bill will now be transmitted to the National Assembly that will amend the 1981 Act and 2011 Act. The figure of N27,000 monthly has been approved for transmission to the National Assembly. The frequency of the review of the bill is five years to get it in consonance with pension law of the federation as enshrined in the constitution. “Exemptions to this bill will be establishments that are not employing people up to the number of 25. The various times prescribed have also been altered in the bill and will be sent to the National Assembly before the close of work tomorrow (today),” he said. The Council of State comprises the President (Chairman), Vice-President, (Deputy Chairman), all former Presidents/Heads of the Government, all former Chief Justices of Nigeria, Senate President,  House of Representatives Speaker, State Governors and Attorney-General of the Federation. Yesterday’s meeting was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki, former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, former Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar and former Head of Interim Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan. Former Chief Justices of Nigeria Mohammed Uwais, Alfa Belgore and Mahmud Mohammed were also in attendance. Also present were governors of Osun, Kebbi, Zamfara, Plateau, Ebonyi, Adamawa, Edo, Lagos, Niger, Borno, Ogun, Ekiti, Kogi and deputy governors of Bauchi, Kaduna, and Rivers State. Two former Heads of State, Yakubu Gowon and Ibrahim Babangida sent apologies for their absence at the meeting. House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara was also absent. NLC to meet Friday The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has rejected the N27,000 new National Minimum Wage adopted by the National Council of State on Tuesday. Dr Peter Ozo-Eson, the NLC General Secretary, who said this yesterday in Abuja, said the Council of State has no jurisdiction determining another amount after a Tripartite Committee has submitted its report. “It is abysmal of government to be delaying the submission of an Executive Bill to the National Assembly and by wrongfully adopting N27,000 through the council of states,” he said. Ozo-Eson, however, said the NLC has called an emergency National Executive Council meeting for Friday to weigh on the deadline given to government within which to submit an executive bill to the National Assembly. The NLC general scribe added that the Federal Government was only projecting a shutdown of the economy with its latest action. “This is because workers should not be held responsible for any development after its NEC meeting on Friday,” he said. When contacted on phone, NLC President Ayuba Wabba said the NEC of the congress would meet and issue an official statement on the development. “I’m away in Italy, we will issue an official statement on it,” he said. We await bill – House of Reps Following the meeting of the Council of State on the proposed minimum wage, spokesman of the House of Representatives, Abdulrazak Namdas, said the lawmakers are awaiting the transmission of the bill to the House by the executive arm of government. Namdas, who disclosed this in a telephone chat with Daily Trust yesterday, also expressed the commitment of the lawmakers to the welfare of Nigerian workers. “I can tell you that the House awaits the minimum wage bill from the executive arm of government. “It is expected that President Muhammadu Buhari will officially communicate the House to that effect, and the letter will be read on the floor of the House. “Until then, I don’t want to pre-empt the reactions of my colleagues on the subject but I can assure you that we are favourably disposed to the welfare of Nigerian workers,” Namdas said. Breaking: Council of State approves N30,000 Minimum wage for federal, N27,000 for state workers Minimum wage: Why labour insists on strike As January 23 deadline looms