Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday flagged off the federal government’s ‘Tradermoni’ describing the scheme as “one of the major policies of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to empower the youth and poor Nigerians. The vice president also advised Nigerians to resist the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from returning to power in the general election,n saying the motive of PDP’s come back to power is to loot the nation’s treasury. The Tradermoni programme, under the government’s Micro, Small and Medium Scale enterprises (MSMEs) was done in Ado Ekiti, Ikere and Omuo Ekiti. The VP also visited Iworoko Ekiti, where trailer rammed into a market and killed 15 persons a couple of weeks ago to commiserate with the indigenes of the town. Osinbajo said Nigeria’s economy would have collapsed long ago but for President Muhammadu Buhari’s honesty, reminding that only a honest and selfless leader could be trusted with the nation’s wealth. Osinbajo said Nigerians would be plunged into another round of embezzlement if the PDP is elected in the poll, describing Buhari’s government as prudent in terms of financial management. He said the government would establish special micro finance banks; People’s Money Bank and Entrepreneurial Bank to drive the Tradermoni and Market Money policies, where beneficiaries will get between N100,000 and N500,000 to establish MSMEs to drive the economy. “Many of our leaders are not responsible, so Nigeria needs a honest man to lead the people and President Buhari is doing just that. Don’t allow anybody to deceive you. President Buhari is a honest man. Our problem in this country is that many of our leaders are stealing our money; so you must disallow them from coming to power again”, he said. He said Ekiti will benefit from Lagos-Kano railway line that is underway when completed, saying this project was targeted at strengthening the economy of each of the benefiting states. “Rather than stealing money, President Buhari is doing more in strengthening the youths through N-Power, Tradermoni, School Feeding Programme, Lagos-Kano rail line, Calabar—Asaba-Abuja Railway line, among others. All these are meant to benefit Nigerian masses. “As we speak, 500,000 Nigerians are benefiting from N-Power, but we are not going to stop at that. Soon, the number will increase. “The Next Level of our government is to give loans to women, youths and other sector through the special banks that are underway to make lives easy for the masses”, he stated. In his remark, the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, urged Nigerians to vote for Buhari’s continuity. Fayemi said the array of potentials and creativity of Ekiti have been showcased to the Federal Government, saying those with special skills shall continue to benefit patronage from government. “If you want better values for your lives, if you need a government that will be compassionate and resourceful, then vote For Buhari/Osinbajo in the next election. “The good livelihood of Ekiti people is dear to Buhari’s government and with the APC in the saddle, Ekiti will continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy. “In four months that we came into power, we have paid four salaries and pensions are paid regularly, so you have seen that we are different to the government of the past”, he said. Osinbajo to traders: Be patient, TraderMoni will reach many Nigerians Osinbajo assures Nigerians of better times ahead I stand for fiscal federalism, state police–Osinbajo