A former youth leader of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nuku- Sabon Gari ward of Abaji Area Council, Mr. Peter Yandu, and 157 other members have defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former youth leader while speaking on behalf of the defectors on Wednesday at Nuku primary school, said he and other members had been in PDP since 1999 but were later abandoned by the party they worked for. He said since the party had abandoned them, they decided to pitch tent with the ruling APC after series of consultations with some of his former PDP members in the area. He noted that the ruling APC administration under the leadership of Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya has performed well especially in the area of infrastructure, education and youth empowerment. “It was on that note that I have decided to lead over 157 former members of the PDP to join APC today. I want to assure the chairman he will surely get 100% votes here in Nuku on election day by God’s grace,” he said. The Abaji chapter chairman of the APC, Alhaji Haruna Mohammed Yaba, commended the former PDP youth leader and his team for joining APC, saying they should endeavor to work assiduously for the victory of the party during the election. He assured the defectors that the party would carry them along in whatever decision it took so that the party would continue to wax stronger. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, advised the defectors against being moles  in APC, saying they should come out openly to work for the party. “So I want to commend the former PDP youth leader and his team for joining APC, but most importantly, come out openly with one mind and work for the ruling party instead of being a mole in APC, “ he said. The chairman expressed confidence that no matter the odds, APC shall emerge victorious during the upcoming general elections, while urging them to remain firm in their decision in joining the APC. “I want to assure the PDP defectors that by the grace of God, they will be rewarded as they work for victory of our party during the election,” he added.  Ex-council chairman, 3,400 others defect to APC in Abaji FCT polls: PDP will fail in Abaji  – Council boss Abaji PDP chairmanship aspirant defects to APC