Kano state governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has commissioned the Gada-Biyu Electrification project, executed by his administration at the cost of over N500 million. The project is aimed at ensuring stable power supply to Gada Biyu and surrounding communities in Doguwa local government area of the state. Speaking during the ceremony, Ganduje explained that the government decided to execute the project so as to improve economic activities in Doguwa local government area. “This project will enable you to engage in several economic activities linked with power besides providing electricity for your domestic use”, he stated. “I want to appeal to you to make good use of this project and to protect the electrical installations from vandalism”, he added. According to him, “such life-changing projects are the types of development initiatives that the APC has brought to Nigerians. If you vote for our party gain in the next general elections, more dividends of democracy will be delivered to you.” Dr. Ganduje also stated that the state government has, among other things, constructed two bridges, a water treatment plant and a new local government secretariat at the neighbouring Tudun Wada local government, urging the people to vote for President Buhari and all APC candidates in the 2019 general elections. Meanwhile, the governor has all directed local government chairmen and village heads in the state to hold monthly security meetings in their respective domains, in view of security challenges in neighbouring states. He said doing so would enable the government to contain potential security challenges before they escalate. The governor gave the directive during a meeting with traditional leaders and Imams in Doguwa and Tudun Wada local government areas, at the palace of their respective District Heads. The governor solicited their commitment towards peaceful conduct of the forthcoming general elections in the country. Mr. President, welcome to Kano your political stronghold INVESTIGATION: Taraba zone where only one town is connected to national grid Re: Open letter to Governor Ganduje