Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo state has said that the security situation in the nation’s northeast would have been worse had President Muhammadu Buhari not intervened the way he did. He said that it is for this and other achievements of the president that Nigerians should eulogise him now that he is alive. The governor, while speaking at the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Emblem Launch for 2019 on Wednesday, at the Government House in Owerri, regretted  that in this part of the world, people condemn their leaders while alive but celebrate them when they are dead. He said that Nigerians should see the need to celebrate the nation’s heroes, both those alive and those that have died since patriotism is not in the love of the law but in the love of one’s country. He said the president must be commended for the fight against insurgency and his love for this country. Okorocha said, “I want to commend President Buhari for his show of leadership with what is happening in the North East. I don’t know what the situation in the North-East would have been like if President Buhari was not the President of Nigeria now. “It would have been better imagined than seen. President Buhari must be commended, if not for anything, his fight against insurgency and his love for his country. “I am not one of those who campaign for him for what he has done; I campaign for him, for who he is. Buhari means well and he is not a cheat. Buhari will not lie to Nigerians. If he has made any mistake, it is a human mistake but he loves his nation and wants to do the best for this country without counting cost of returns”. While addressing the legionaries, he said “I am here to encourage you and officially launch this emblem as a remembrance of those who had lost their lives and particularly for the widows who, from time to time remember the wonderful time they had with their spouses when they were still alive and what life looks like now without them. “Ours is not to support you to sorrow but remind you of the wonderful sacrifices made by your spouses for our nation. This nation is with you and your governor is with you. We are all with you in prayers and we shall support you the much we can.” The Executive Chairman of the State Chapter of the Nigerian Legion, Comrade Anyanwu Alphonsus, in his address  eulogised his colleagues who laid down their lives for the country. Buhari is homesick, will be back soon -Okorocha Okorocha urges support for Buhari Shettima: 3 Southern govs present when Buhari requested focus on North-East