The European Centre for Electoral Support [ECES] has advised security Agencies in Nigeria to demonstrate high sense of professionalism before, during and after the forthcoming general elections. The Project Director of ECES, Mr Rudolf Elbling, gave the advice in an address at the Training the Trainer workshop for Election Security Personnel in Enugu on Friday. The training, which will last for two days, would run from January 25 to January 26. Elbing said although election was regarded as a sensitive and complex operations, “It is however our expectation that the security forces will display the highest sense of professionalism in handling issues of election security. And maintain a friendly and non-partisan disposition that will inspire the confidence of the general populace in the electoral
process.” According to him, security agencies have critical roles to play in securing the electoral process, a role, he noted “that had become more challenging in view of reported cases of security breaches in certain parts of the country.” Elbing further said: “The issue of security is indeed very complex in a vast country like Nigeria where election personnel and materials have to be deployed across land, expanse of land and sometimes difficult terrain.” He assured that ECES Nigeria would continue to partner INEC under the European Union Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria [EUSDGN] in providing technical assistance and capacity building meant to improve the electoral process. In a remark, Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said that the training of security agencies had remained a critical aspect of
professionalizing the electoral workforce, adding that the impact was
clearly observed during the off-season elections leading to the general
elections. Yakubu said: “The continuous engagement with critical stakeholders such as security agencies is geared towards ensuring a safe and secure
electoral environment for citizens, particularly the voting public to
engage in governance without any form of hindrance. “This training on election security is therefore important as it will
serve to equip security personnel with knowledge of our electoral
processes, electoral environment, electoral laws, guidelines and the
risk elements associated with them.” According to Yakubu, who was represented by INEC’s Deputy Director for Electoral Training, Mr Ifeanyi Agoha, “I implore participants to take the training seriously as it will deepen your standard electoral operational guidelines. “It will also create a harmonious relationship amongst security
agencies on election duty.” Daily Trust reports that the security agencies who attended the training included the Nigerian Army, Police, Nigerian Air Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and Department of State Security, Nigerian Immigration Service, Nigerian Customs Service, Nigerian Prisons Service, Federal Fire Service, Federal Road Safety Commission and INEC Security Department staff. 2019: Media on the spotlight for professionalism, credible polls Helpless Police? Roles of security agents during elections 2019: INEC to work with security agencies in prosecuting violators