The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has called on Nigerians to always resolve political issues peacefully through lawful means instead of taking laws into their hands. The Director General of the agency, Dr. Garba Abari, made the call in Bauchi at the North East Zonal Sensitization Campaign flag-off on peaceful conduct of the forthcoming general elections in the country. Abari, who was represented by a director of the agency, Salihu Jibrin, lamented that some unpatriotic citizens resort to taking laws into their hands especially after the election results were released. He also advised politicians to be guard their utterances and stop their supporters against making provocative statements capable of overheating the polity and breakdown of law and order. The NOA Director General noted that if INEC, security agencies, political parties and the electorates failed to conduct their various responsibilities as expected, there will not be free and fair election that will be accepted by Nigerians and the international community. He said the agency has embarked on nationwide political and civic education campaign to sensitize, educate and mobilize Nigerians to minimize rejected votes, peaceful conduct of the elections and against vote buying or selling to encourage citizens to exercise their franchise without fear. In his remark, the Bauchi State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Alhaji Ibrahim Abdullahi, warned people against engaging in election malpractices. He commended NOA for coming up with the campaign which he said will contributing to peaceful, free and fair elections. In his welcome address, the state Director of NOA, Alhaji Nuru Yusuf Kobi, said the nationwide campaign is to increase voter’s education and sensitive people against violence before, during and after the elections. Kobi informed that the agency has identified awareness campaign as one of the measure to minimize and tackle incidences of voided or invalid votes which lead to the cancellation of election results as well as vote buying and selling. The state NOA Director expressed confidence that with the campaign, violence will be reduced during and after the elections in addition to building a new culture of peace and justice in the electoral process. 500,000 PVCs not yet collected in Kaduna – NOA 2019: NOA urges FG to deploy security agents for peaceful election 2019 elections: NOA calls for deployment of security apparatus for peace