Former top bureaucrats from Kwara north senatorial district have lauded the pact announced on Sunday by leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party ((PDP) which will see the governorship slot shifting to the Kwara North in 2023. Also, the positions of Speaker of the state’s House of Assembly and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) will be zoned to the same Senatorial District in the post-2019 government, according to the pact. In a statement signed by Alhaji Dabarako Mohammed, a former Head of Service, on behalf of former top civil servants and opinion leaders from the district, they described the arrangement as a positive move which will guarantee peace, unity, inclusivity, equity, even development and justice among the various zones in the state. The leaders of thought noted that the people of Kwara north senatorial district had been yearning for solid representation in the post-2019 government in the state. They added that since the PDP had been thoughtful enough to offer them a plan which recognised the importance of the zone in the political equation, then the party should be rest assured that it will have bloc votes from the zone at all levels in the coming elections. “The PDP move shows its leaders are very thoughtful, calculating and honest to know that equity and justice are what can guarantee development, peace and unity. “That plan has re-assured our people that they are appreciated and recognized as equal stakeholders in Kwara state. “Our people will definitely reciprocate that insightful and foresighted gesture with overwhelming votes. “It is now the duty of those of us who are opinion leaders to work with our traditional rulers, socio-cultural groups and other mobilization agents to inform our people on the need to massively turn out during the elections and vote for the party that has demonstrated their love for us. And that is the PDP”, they stated. The group added that they have no fear that the terms and content of the agreement would be respected and honoured as the signing was witnessed by traditional rulers from the North and Central Senatorial Districts and the fact that the PDP gubernatorial candidate has publicly acknowledged and expressed support for the understanding has given necessary assurances to the people about its feasibility. “We cannot but praise the discipline displayed by the PDP leaders for getting the stakeholders to agree on the plan. It shows the party is worthy of being entrusted with the present and future of the Kwara state. “The PDP will definitely reap very good results from this bold and refreshing move in the coming elections. “We call on our people to ignore the rantings and claims of those who think that the power shift understanding was a desperate move or that it came out of any coercion or intimidation. “The PDP leaders voluntarily out of their own political sophistication, ingenuity and understanding of the politics of the state made the plan and it is acceptable to us. We shall abide by it and make it work”, the group added. Kwara north: APC elders dissociate self from pact with PDP Saraki, others commit Kwara PDP gov’ship candidate to one term 2019: Kwara North APC elders forum calls for power shift