The newly commissioned terminals at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA) and Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Omagwa in Rivers State would not be run by the Chinese, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has clarified. The Managing Director of FAAN, Engr. Saleh Dunoma explained that contrary to insinuations in some quarters, the terminals are being run by the organization. Daily Trust reports that President Muhammadu Buhari had commissioned two of the four new terminals constructed with the $500m loan secured from the China Exim Bank with $100m counterpart fund by the Federal Government. Engr. Dunoma told newsmen that the new terminals had opened massive employment prospects for Nigerians as they would be the managers of facilities. He said, “There is nothing like the Chinese will run it. They gave us a loan to construct the terminals and we are supposed to pay back this loan. So arrangements are made in the agreement we signed that as soon as the buildings are put into operation they will give us a gestation period and then from there we will start paying back the loan. “So we are making arrangements to start payments as soon as the gestation period is over. They are not going to run the terminals, what we want to do with them is as usual, if you provide an infrastructure, there is a defect liability period which is about one year. So, they will help us train our engineers and maintain the facility for one year until the defect liability period is over. So they have to be around until our people get used to these facilities as quickly as possible.” An analyst, Simon Nkeonyasuwa said the new terminals alongside the ones at Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) which are near completion, when put to adequate use hold huge prospects for Nigerians in terms of creating employment and enhancing passenger facilitation.  October wait for Abuja airport’s new terminal begins Abuja airport: 15m capacity terminal for commissioning Dec. 20 New Abuja terminal to be operational October - FAAN MD