The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Jimi Agbaje, on Tuesday, met with the leaders of the state’s Muslim community and assured them that he would run an all-inclusive government that would cater for the needs of residents, if elected. The meeting took place at the Lagos Central Mosque where he was presented a charter of demands. The parley was chaired by the President of the community, Professor Tajudeen Gbadamosi, with scores of scholars present under the leadership of the Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla who was represented by the Baba Adinni of Lagos, Sheikh Afeez Abou. Other notable clerics present include all the divisional Imams in the five divisions making up the state as well as the Missioners of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society, Imam Abdulrahaman Ahmad, Sheikh Abdularahaman Adangba as well as the Director of Muslim Rights Concern, Professor Ishaq Akintola. Daily Trust reports that the governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Babajide Sanwo-Olu had earlier met with the Muslim community. Daily Trust reports that one of the demands presented before the candidates was the establishment of Sharia Court of Appeal. Agbaje, who was accompanied by his deputy, Mrs. Haleemat Oluyemi Busari, after the over two-hour meeting stressed that he would carry along all shades of opinions, if elected. He described the Muslim community in the state as critical stakeholders, adding that he would accord their demands the needed attention. On the perceived lopsidedness in the appointment of judicial officers in the state, he stated that the imbalance might have been occasioned by political expediency on the part of the appointing authorities and not out of a deliberate desire to sideline the Muslim community. He promised to ensure fairness when voted into power. “I don’t think those in the position of authority who have the power and means to appoint judges would have done so with the intention to place the Muslim community at a disadvantage. “I think what might have happened was that those who appointed them looked for those who would do their bidding,” he said. He said the problem would be rectified when he was elected using the criteria of merit, balance and equity in a manner that would ensure that all segments of the Lagos society were duly represented. On the question of the establishment of a Sharia Court of Justice for Muslims, Agbaje said, “If it is not outside of the Constitution and nobody will feel that you are trying to force a religion on another person, it is something we will look at.” 10th Lagos Chief Imam to get Staff of Office on Sunday Lagos guber: How Sanwo-Olu will lock horns with Agbaje in 2019 Lagos 2019: I'm confident of defeating Ambode,Sanwo-Olu,Otedola — Jimi Agbaje