A prosecution witness in a murder trial before an FCT High Court in Jabi, yesterday, told the court how the defendant gave his father several blows to the chest which led to his death. The police in a one-count charge of culpable homicide not punishable with death alleged that Pam Bot “went to the house of one Okpe Michael and rain blows on several parts of the body which caused sudden heartattack that led to his death.” Upon his arraignment on January 9, the defendant entered a plea of not guilty and was remanded in prison pending the determination of the suit. At the resumed hearing, yesterday, the witness, Benedict Michael, one of the nine children of the deceased, corroborated the testimony of the police. He specifically told the court that the defendant punctual his father three times on the chest and threatened to kill him. While being led in evidence by the prosecution counsel, Patrick Ogele, the witness said his father later complained of chest pains before collapsing and was later pronounced dead at the General Hospital in Kubwa. Under cross examination by Barrister Zumka Sekop, the witness said the defendant came to their house around 11pm but he could not remember the time they went to the hospital. He said he was aware that an autopsy was conducted on his father’s corpse, but that he didn’t see the autopsy report. “So, based on that autopsy report, I would not know what caused my father’s death,” he said. According to the charge, the police alleged that Bot carried out the said act with the intention that death would be the likely and not probable consequences of the act. He was therefore alleged to have committed an offence contrary to Section 222 of the Penal Code Law. The case has been adjourned to February 14, 19 and March 4 and 6 for continuation of hearing. Teenager tells court how father was murdered over generator smoke Man kills neighbour with cutlass over generator smoke Lagos State commences trial of Danish national over murder of wife, daughter