The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday flagged off its governorship campaign in Kaduna state urging the people to vote for the party and its candidates in the next general elections to return the state to the path of prosperity. The party’s governorship candidate in the state, Isa Ashiru, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna state has failed and urged the people to vote out APC candidates in the elections. He called on the electorate to come out en mass and vote for the PDP at all levels saying it will return the state and the country to the path of progress. Ashiru also took a swipe at the APC led government for sacking civil servants and teachers and promised that if elected, he will set up a committee that will review the cases of the sacked workers with a view of reinstating those whose appointments were ‘unjustly  terminated.’ “I want all of you to ensure that you keep your voters cards safely. Your voter’s card is your power,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the national chairman of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Buba Galadima, said the APC government has brought hunger, poverty and insecurity on Nigerians. He said the PDP will change that by the time it comes back to power. “You must make sure that you vote the PDP for President, Governor and all other positions. You must protect your votes, come out en mass and ensure that you cast your vote no matter what,” he stated. Immediate former governor of Kaduna State, Ramalan Yero, chided the APC government in the state for non performance. The rally was attended by many chieftains of the PDP including former Vice President, Namadi Sambo; former national caretaker chairman of the PDP, Senator Ahmed Makarfi; former governor of Jigawa state, Sule Lamido, former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu  Musa Kwankwaso; chairman of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin and  Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, among other party stalwarts. No issues with my certificate – Ashiru Governorship: Kaduna’s frontline 4 and how they stand Kaduna SDP governorship candidate dares El-Rufai, Ashiru to debate