Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the alleged plot by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to postpone the 2019 general elections in Rivers state to allow the All Progressives Congress (APC) prepare, will be resisted. The governor disclosed this on Saturday at the state PDP rally at Okehi. He alleged that INEC is working in liaison with the APC to illegally postpone Rivers elections and allegedly create room for manipulation. Wike recalled that INEC had, two years ago in Ondo State, established the precedent that no election would be postponed on the account of intra-party crisis. “We know all the tricks of INEC. INEC is a fraudulent institution that lacks credibility. Because of Rivers State, INEC will sink. “As the election is approaching, INEC is trying to give hope to APC in Rivers State. Remember that INEC is a member of the APC. It is number three on the APC official register. “Two years ago, PDP had a problem in Ondo State.  Three days to the election, the Court of Appeal gave judgement and PDP requested for postponement, but INEC bluntly refused to grant that request. “Now APC has a problem and INEC is claiming they will postpone Rivers elections to give APC opportunity to prepare. I am warning INEC not to  try that rubbish in Rivers State “. The governor said that the INEC Commissioner who is circulating the negative propaganda should seek God’s forgiveness or face divine consequences. “Anybody plotting against Rivers State will not survive”, he said. Speaking on the forthcoming elections, Governor Wike urged the people of the state to vote for Atiku Abubakar and other PDP candidates on 16th February and 2nd March, 2019. He said a vote for Atiku Abubakar will lead to the revival of the national economy, which will provides employment. Also speaking at the campaign, the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus said that Governor Wike deserves a second term because of his outstanding projects delivery. The PDP National Chairman warned that any attempt to rig the forthcoming elections will lead to crisis. Re-run elections: Rivers political warlords return to trenches UPDATED: Tribunal sacks Wike as Rivers governor Wike threat to Rivers re-run polls – APC