Community Health and Research Initiative (CHR), an NGO, has appealed to governments at all levels to invest in the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage (excessive bleeding after child birth). Malam Salisu Muhammad, the Executive Director of the organisation, made the call in a statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja. Muhammad appealed to the governments to earmark reasonable percentage in their annual budgets for the procurement, storage and distribution of drugs, like carbetocin, to reduce maternal mortality in the country. Carbetocin is one of the heat stable drugs recommended by updated guidelines for the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage by World Health Organisation (WHO). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that WHO updated the 2012 guidelines for the prevention of Postpartum Haemorrhage (PPH) on Dec. 20, 2018, with new recommendations on uterotonics. According to WHO, uterotonics are drug formulations that help to prevent and treat postpartum haemorrhage. Muhammad said CHR applauded WHO for updating the guidelines. According to him, data from WHO shows that about 14 million women around the world suffer from postpartum haemorrhage every year; this severe bleeding after birth is the largest direct cause of maternal deaths. “In addition to the suffering and loss of women’s lives, when women die in childbirth, their babies also face a much greater risk of dying within one month compared to babies whose mothers survive,’’ he said. The executive director said the updated guideline was a good development for improving quality maternal health drugs, especially for Africa and Nigeria, where maternal death through PPH is very high. He added that the organisation believed that the updated guideline was a truly encouraging new development that can revolutionise the ability to keep mothers and babies alive. “While we welcome this new guidance, we therefore call on the Nigerian Government to invest in these drugs as it will go a long way in preventing PPH in the country,” Muhammad said. He said 99 per cent of the deaths from PPH occur in low- and middle-income countries compared with only one per cent in high-income countries. “It is hoped that with these new guidelines, healthcare workers globally will be able to stop women and their babies from facing unnecessary risks to their health and lives, wherever they live,” he said. (NAN) Reducing maternal  mortality in Nigeria FG introduces new guidelines to curtail HIV spread Why drug trial for women is close to my heart