President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, stunned Imo electorate when he asked members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to vote according to their conscience during the forthcoming elections. Buhari, speaking in Owerri on the lingering crisis rocking the Imo State chapter of the party, urged the members to vote for any candidate of their choice irrespective of intra party squabbles. The president’s speech at the Dan Anyiam Stadium was however at variance with that of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who had mandated APC members to vote for the party’s governorship candidate, Hope Uzodinma. Governor Rochas Okorocha, who is a member of the APC had endorsed his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, who is vying for the governorship on the platform of Action Alliance (AA). Buhari, speaking on the lingering logjam said, “You can vote for whosoever you want; do not allow intra or inter party affairs stop you from voting for the candidate of your choice.” Earlier in his speech, Oshiomhole had said that APC did not need the support of Action Alliance to deliver President Buhari in the state. He said, “Let me make it clear that the APC is not in alliance with any party; we have the power to deliver the President. You should vote for Uzodinma as our governorship candidate, don’t be deceived by anybody.” Governor  Okorocha, in his speech, had caused a stir when he said that only the chairman of his APC faction, Mr. Daniel Nwafor, would be allowed to speak at the rally. However, neither Nwafor nor Marcellinus Nlemigbo who is the chairman of the faction recognized by the national headquarters of the party were allowed to speak at the event. Speaking after receiving the party’s flag, Uzodinma said he would not be deterred by internal hostility, stressing that he was sure of clinching the governorship seat come March 2. Buhari had earlier held a town hall meeting at the Eze Imo palace where he told the monarchs that he had delivered on his campaign promises to Nigerians. A surprise appearance at the meeting was that of the AA governorship candidate, Uche Nwosu.   Vote for candidates of your choice, Buhari tells Imo APC members My son in-law will contest Imo gov’ship in another party – Okorocha I won’t stop Nwosu, others from leaving APC - Okorocha