Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has said it is pained over the return of insurgency in some parts of  Borno and Yobe states with wanton destruction of lives and property. It also expresses deep concern over what it described as a theatre of dehumanisation and desecration of the sanctity of life, properties, personal liberty and communal integrity, by wanton destruction of lives and properties, as well as terrorizing communities in Zamfara state. In a statement signed by the JNI’s Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, it noted that the incidences are utterly reprehensible and unacceptable, for hooligans and way-wards to hold a whole state to ransom to no avail. “Where is the government? Where are the security agencies? Where are the political, community and religious leaders? Where is our conscience? Where is the humanness in us? Above all, where is our Islam? Where is the Qur’an and its pristine teachings? Where is the Prophetic guidance in his Sunnah? “Why must all these bloodletting be allowed to resurface? All these re-occurring acts of terrorism, dehumanisation, sacrilege of sanctity of life and all forms of wickedness are utterly and unreservedly condemned in their entirety and government must go beyond mere condemnations. “The Zamfara state carnage has now claimed uncountable number of lives and destruction of properties, and has continued unabated for years. What then is the essence of government and security outfits? “We should all be reminded that, that was how Boko Haram insurgency started and it has now snowballed into a full blown security threat to the nation! “We must not see it as a face up to Zamfara state, as already spill-over of it, has been witnessed in Kaduna, Niger, Sokoto, Kebbi and Katsina states in the name of armed banditry and kidnappings,” the statement read. While calling for realistic investigation that must bring similar occurrence(s) to a final end, he said it is disheartening that after attacks are lunched on settlements, sporadic gun shots follow and then setting the communities ablaze ensues in Zamfara state. He noted that the evil that men do lives after them, and will continue to hunt them and assured that JNI will continue to ask questions including, “Who are the blood thirsty fellows? Why have they been allowed for years? Why have they not been arrested and interrogated? What has been the motive behind such repeated scandalous acts? Isn’t intelligence gathering supposed to aid security operatives and why is it not yielding the desired results? Why the renewed attacks now, just few months before the 2019 general elections?” He added that: “JNI has been keenly following the unfolding events in Zamfara, Borno and Yobe states, overtime; which unfortunately climax with the recent serial massacres in Maradun, Tsafe, Birnin Magaji, Maru, Baga and Kukareta, among many others. “We therefore call on governments at all levels to do everything possible as a matter of urgency to stop these evil acts of terror repeatedly being unleashed on innocent souls and restore peace and security, which is their first constitutional role, as silence is no longer golden.” He commiserated with the families of the victims of these ‘inhuman attacks’ and particularly condole with the families of gallant security men that died at battle fronts, husbands and wives, parents and guardians who have lost their wards/children in these orgy of misfortunes. He prayed to the Almighty Allah, to grant the deceased forgiveness and mercy, while those that sustained injuries quick recovery. He however drew the attention of the political gladiators to play the game according to the rules, during their political campaigns, with decorum and peaceful means. He stressed that hate speeches and all violent tendencies should be avoided as responsible conduct of campaign is a panacea in ushering responsible leadership. He then called on Imams to return to special prayers in calamitous situations and trying times (Qunutun-Nawazil), seeking Allah, the Most High to deal with the situation and evil perpetrators with what they deserve, and to restore peace and security to all affected areas, and the country at large. Salute to Governor Kashim Shettima Lagos women take to streets over slain Yobe students Killings:  JNI urges govt to rise as Sultan urges supplication