The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, yesterday said the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, is after his life. Saraki, the Director-General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO), said so at a press conference in Abuja, and urged international organizations to hold Idris responsible if anything happens to him. Saraki said the IGP had tried several tricks to implicate him in some criminal charges, the first being the arrest of some cultists who were compelled to claim they worked for him. “Later, he went on to the Offa robbery case and politicized the investigation in order to rope me. In the process of forcing suspects to implicate me, the principal suspect died in their custody. He has also not succeeded with that plot. Who knows what else he may have planned?” he asked. “The police have continued to show undisguised hostility to me and my supporters in Kwara State and this latest round of violence is part of efforts to jeopardise and undermine my personal security and that of my immediate and larger family. “Yesterday (Thursday), after the APC concluded their campaigns in Ilorin, some of their supporters and thugs moved around town  and in areas  like Adewole/Adeta, Ile Otan and Ubandawaki/Pakata where they saw our people gathered holding their weekly ward meeeting. They disrupted the meetings by shouting their party slogan and when our people responded by mentioning our own slogan, they fired gun shots into their midst in Adewole/Adeta. They also inflicted machete cuts on some of them. As a result of this attack, two people suffered bullet wounds.” “It should also be noted that IGP has posted three different commissioners to Kwara State in the last six months. In fact, the previous and current ones got strict instructions not to relate or engage with the senate president.”  Inspector General of Police is after my life, Saraki cries out BREAKING: IGP wants to implicate me, Kwara Gov in criminal scandal — Saraki Saraki meets Buhari over alleged plot by IGP to implicate him