The performance of the Nigerian economy and financial markets in the country in 2019 will be decided by the likely impact of the forthcoming general elections in February and March, says a report. The report, titled ‘On the Precipice” by Afrinvest (West Africa) Limited, offers insights into the social, economic and political risks and potentials that will affect the growth of the economy in 2019 and beyond. The report notes that the issues of corruption, insecurity and troubled economy that were on the ballot in 2015 are still visible today, albeit reported effort by the government in tackling the problems. “Going into the 2019 elections, these issues are still on the ballot, but the larger part of the conversations have been focused on the economy. “Growth has retreated below long-term growth rate of 6-7%, just as unemployment has worsened at 23.1% and 20.1% respectively in Q3:2018 (8.2% and 18.3% respectively in Q2:2015),” the report partly reads. Speaking at the launch of the report in Lagos, Group Managing Director of Afrinvest, Ike Chioke, said the 2019 general elections is an opportunity to press the reset button and set the country on a path of sustainable growth and prosperity. He recalled that the year 2018 may have delivered some positives but growth remains far below long-term levels of 6 – 7%. He further added unemployment and underemployment numbers have gone up, and Nigeria has been named the poverty capital of the world and there are elevated security threats across regions. He said: “Our outlook for 2019 is, therefore, largely dependent on the outcome of the general elections. At present, the race appears to be keenly contested by the incumbent party – APC – and the major opposition party – PDP. “Whatever the outcome, one thing is certain: the winner must hit the ground running with the energy and political will to implement market-driven reforms that will boost economic growth and development,” Chioke stated. Forbes disagrees with IMF over Nigeria’s economy AfDB sees 3.8% growth for W/Africa in 2018 7 economic problems Buhari must tackle before 2019