The acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu has vowed to provide the missing link in the leadership of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and restore its past glory. He made this known during the handing over ceremony of the leadership of the Force between him and the outgone IGP, Ibrahim Idris, in Abuja on Wednesday. He said the police desire a transparent, responsive, motivational, accountable and knowledgeable leadership who will treat personnel with dignity in the line of duty. He added that the police require leadership that is sensitive to the welfare of the personnel and fair in the manner their promotion and other reward regimes are addressed. He noted that, “the absence of this level of leadership has always been the missing link of policing in Nigeria…I am determined to draw on my national and international policing leadership experience to bridge this missing link.” He added, “The lost glory of the Nigeria Police Force which remains a concern to governments at all levels, citizens, human rights groups, the international community and indeed well-meaning officers and men of the force shall be restored.” He said in the coming days he would unfold the strategic focus of his leadership, noting that in the short term the police have the responsibility of providing security for the general elections on 16th February and 2nd March 2019. He said the elections are of immediate priority and in the next few weeks police men would be deployed at ensuring quality election security. He also warned that the police under his watch will not hesitate to identify, isolate and bring to justice any person or group that attempts to threaten the nation. He said, “To unrepentant felons that may want to put our common will to test, the message is being relayed here loud and clear…we shall not hesitate to deploy our potent assets to deal firmly and decisively with electoral deviants.” Acting I-G warns personnel against unethical conduct Governors congratulate new acting IGP #EndSARS: ''Victory for social change campaign’