Niger State government has commenced interventions in selected nomadic schools across the state with a view to encouraging enrolment and retention of more girl-child into its fold, the Commissioner for Education, Hajiya Fatima Madugu has disclosed. Speaking at the Advocacy, mobilisation and sensitisation workshop organised by the National Commission for Nomadic Education yesterday in Minna, the commissioner said the intervention was being done through the State Universal Basic Education Board. She said Tugan-Makun Nomadic Primary School in Paikoro Local Government Area, which has been in existence for about 30 years now, was among the schools that would beefit from the intervention. Others are Gidan-Alura Nomadic school in Chanchaga local government area; Mashalashi Nomadic school in Kontagora local government area; Adan Nomadic school in Mashegu local government area and Maiyaki-Legbo Nomadic school in Bida local government area of the state. She said the intervention was being carried  out in phases, adding that more schools would be captured as funds were accessed  from the Universal Basic Education Commission. She said the state government has also keyed into the National Commission for Nomadic Education’s  initiative by encouraging enrolment especially of the girl child through advocacy and sensitisation of the target group in addition to building capacity of teachers deployed to nomadic schools. The Executive Secretary of the National Commission for Nomadic Education, Professor Bashir Usman, who said he has taken assessment tours of some of the schools the state government is intervening,  urged other state governments, especially in the North, to emulate Niger state. He said lack of basic facilities in most of the nomadic schools across the country and the distance to settlements were impeding the effective participation of girl child in education thereby forcing them to dropout and increasing out-of-school statistics. Giving example of the situation in Gidan-Alura Nomadic primary school, the executive secretary said pupils have to trek long distance from their respective settlement for fetch water, becaause the borehole which serves  the Tunga-Makun settlement only functions during the rainy season. He said the Commission was looking into the problems and called on other stakeholders to key into the ongoing effort to addressing all constraints which put the girl-child, especially the nomads, at a disadvantage educationally. How Shettima ‘herded’ nomadic Fulani children to school Bauchi agency sensitizes Fulanis on children enrolment in nomadic schools Yobe begins construction of primary school staff quarters