The United States, United Kingdom and European Union have expressed concern over security issues ahead of the general elections scheduled to hold in February and March. The Charge D’Affaires of the US Embassy in Nigeria, Mr. David Young, highlighted the concern yesterday in Abuja during a visit to the INEC headquarters in Abuja by the delegation of European Union Ambassadors. The visit also marked the commissioning of the new Election Monitoring and Support Centre (EMSC) at the INEC headquarters. According to Mr. Young, it was important to see security agencies providing security for the elections to guarantee safety of the process and voters. He said the United States would work with the newly appointed Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, for the success of the election. On his part, the EU Ambassador, Karlsen Ketil said the EU already had long term observers in the country and were also pleased with the arrival of their chief observer. “But our only real mission here is for Nigeria to succeed in having free, fair credible, transparent and peaceful elections. We have reiterated on numerous occasions and I think we should continue to stress that before the media and before you that evidently, the international community in general and certainly the missions that you see before you today (yesterday),” he said. On her part, the new British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Ms. Catriona Laing, said what was fundamental to Nigerians was to see  the elections as credible. Responding, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission was ready for the elections. “The 2019 elections will be jealously guarded,” he said.  “We are committed to free, fair and transparent process to consolidate the position of Nigeria that the credible elections held in 2015 was not a fluke. It was a product of deliberate planning and 2019 is going to be the same,” he said. Re-run: Voter, journalist intimidation worries EU, US , UK Democracy’s sore fingers Insecurity: Germany, France worry over 2015 elections in Northeast