Stakeholders have raised concerns over rising spate of violence against women in elections and called for effective measures that would address the trend ahead of the forthcoming polls. They spoke in Lokoja at a seminar on “Mitigating Violence against Women”, organised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Kogi State. A former chairperson of Federation of International Women Lawyers (FIDA), Kogi State chapter, Barr. Janet Makun, in her presentation pointed out that women participating in the electoral processes often face violence which could be physical, verbal, sexual or psychological. According her, some qualified women seeking political offices are often denied opportunity and access because of their refusal to sleep around with party officials while some other women including female electoral officials often get harassed and manhandled by the men in their course of taking part in the electoral process. She identified cultural and religious barriers as well as money politics as some of the factors that deprive women from taking active part in political activities. Kogi State Chairperson of Federation of International Women Lawyers (FIDA), Barr. Christiana Adejumo called for legislations that would protect women against violence during elections in order to ensure more women participation in the electoral process. She called for the training of the security agents on how to mitigate violence against women and urged the government to build a society of equal rights for both women and men. Barr. Adejumo admonished women, who are into politics, to be determined, courageous and ambitious, adding that they should not be dissuaded by  the violence and lack of conducive political atmosphere that often come their paths. Earlier, Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Kogi State, Prof James Apam said INEC was committed to gender inclusiveness in elections and had put some measures in place to prevent violence against women in elections. He said as part of measures of addressing the issues of women in elections, the Commission has provided that aged women, pregnant women and nursing mothers should be promptly attended to during the forthcoming elections. Apam said the seminar was to afford stakeholders to discuss how to address the issue of violence against women in elections and encourage greater women participation in the electoral process. Falana, others demand immediate prosecution of electoral offenders Why violence against women must stop Parties’ constitutions skewed against women - INEC chair