Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo state has described his eight years administration in Imo as a success story that has touched the lives of the people of the state in many positive ways. The governor who spoke at the New Year service held at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church Ogboko, Ideato South Local government area of the state said he will be remembered for a very long time to come. “I also want to inform all of you that this is exactly seven years and seven months that I assumed office as the Executive Governor. “Going down memory lane, I can beat my chest and proudly say that Imo State is better than I met it. “We can proudly say that Owerri, the capital, is looking better than it has never looked in the history of its creation. Orlu and Okigwe followed suit. “So, my government cannot be found wanting, in as much as we accept that we’re not perfect, but let it be known to all of you here seated that history will judge us as having performed and delivered on our democratic dividends. “I am the fifth Civilian governor to govern the state. I have done the ones I could do as a human being. “There is no local government in the state without the presence of the Rescue Mission Government. I will leave in few months time as governor. “As we are talking about election, we have to be careful in electing who will govern the state,” he said. Speaking on the 2019 election, the governor admonished religious leaders and traditional rulers to shun partisan politics and avoid actions and utterances that could give the impression that they are involved in politics. He said that religious leaders and traditional rulers represent two vital institutions that should not be allowed to be tainted by the vagaries of politics. He added that the non-involvement of religious leaders and traditional rulers in politics would be more useful to the society and the institutions they represent than their involvement in politics. I will ensure that I shake Nwosu as incoming gov, says Okorocha Imo 2019: I am not Okorocha's candidate, says APGA guber aspirant Page 20