Governor AbdulAzeez Yari of Zamfara state has said governors are committed to the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari following his intervention to state governments at a critical period when majority of them cannot pay salaries of workers. Governor Yari spoke on Tuesday in Abuja at the official launch of FORWARD WITH BUHARI, an independent campaign platform for the re-election of President Buhari. He said the governors would have relocated to Abuja if the president did not come to their aide at such difficult period. He said President’s Buhari’s zero tolerance for corruption and aggressive provisions of critical infrastructure were enough to secure victory for him during the next election. He said, “Mr President, you have done something that is unexpected, whereby 27 out of 36 governors cannot pay salary and you had to bail out the states or else some of us will have relocated back to Abuja. “If he can do this irrespective of party, it is time to pay back. Those that stay with Buhari, even his opponents, know his zero tolerance to corruption. “It is about three weeks to the election. We need to work harder, we should go back home and gear up to return President Buhari for a second time. “You know why governors are backing Buhari? I knew what happened in the past administration and now. The president has given us infrastructure. It has been right to ride behind him. We will do all to support this group.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented by the minister of Youths and Sports, Barr. Solomon Dalung, inaugurated the group. Osinbajo urged the group to educate the voters on how to cast their votes in the midst of over 90 political parties besides the plan to engage in aggressive campaigns. The coordinator of the group and the APC Deputy National Chairman, North, Sen. Lawali Shuaibu, said the mandate was not only to create visibility for the campaign on a sustained momentum but also to endear the brand of Buhari/Osinbajo in the hearts of Nigerian voters. “The group named itself FORWARD WITH BUHARI as its mandate is to move with the APC presidential candidate to the next level,” he added. Tenure Elongation: We’re on same page with Buhari — APC governors Breaking: I'll remain in APC to fight injustice, support Buhari's 're election -Marafa Marafa pledges to remain in APC, work for Buhari