Emeka Okpukpara, is a partner at Nextier Power which has held the monthly Nextier Power Dialogue in Abuja since 2016. In this interview, the sector expert proffers ways to raise tariff and solve liquidity issues. The power sector faces over N1 trillion liquidity crisis. Some operators trace this to poor tariff. How can this be addressed? There is no easy answer because it is a tough situation. Most Nigerians see power as social service, not as a business, that’s the basis for where we are. First, customers have to stop stealing power. If you steal power, it has a direct negative effect on tariffs. No matter the tariff costs, if collection losses are still there, exorbitant rate will persist. You could double tariff but if people don’t stop stealing power, we can never make up for the shortfall. Secondly, the electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) have to stop estimated billing because that has a direct effect on tariffs as well because you estimate my bill, I can argue with you on what tariffs should be but if I have a meter, it is what I use that I pay. So those two things have to happen quickly. Meters are not available but the Meter Assets Provider (MAP) Regulation should have put enough structures in place to make that happen. When it comes to how much we pay for power, power in Nigeria is fourth or fifth lowest in Africa in terms of per kilowatt hour (kwh). That tells you that we need to do a little bit more to increase tariff but we can’t increase that without increasing supply, and we can’t increase supply if people keep stealing power because DisCos need money to fund their operations. I know that tariff has to increase but I also feel that DisCos have to start using their money the way they are supposed to. The market rules provide that 25 per cent of the tariffs, the DisCos will hold and push the rest down the value chain but that has not been done. So if you increase tariff now, you are going to empower the DisCos even further. We have to address the collection issues, the technical losses and the energy theft because people bypass meters. Is the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) positioned to effectively regulate the market? Unfortunately, this country is layered with powers that be. There are influences that could make the regulator’s job very tough in this market place. I think the regulator is doing what it is supposed to do but it is not getting enough support to drive the system. A perfect example is the Ibadan DisCo crisis where NERC said it did not do what it was supposed to do but the powers that be intervened and said, stop that. What that has done in my humble opinion is that it has now weakened the regulator. That is one problem with the powers that be pulling strings that they should not. A free market works in the sense that a regulator is supposed to regulate fairly and be orderly and play its role but if there is a situation where the regulator can’t do its job, then the market won’t work. What should Nigerians expect in the sector this year? We feel that we have done some policy briefs that address various issues, one of them being on privatisation. For us, 2019 will be a very interesting year for the sector especially the mini grids and the renewable energy side. A lot of these mini grids will come to life. There are about 30 mini grids already in the country; more will come in this year. Then also the solar Independent Power Projects (IPP) are another fantastic area that we are working on to see how that happens. Green Climate Fund is giving 10 million dollars for the projects as an incentive to help kick start them. What that will do is that it will then show from the other 14 solar IPPs, which two will be selected to start. But there are challenges, like if we have 2,000MW of stranded power already, why do have to add another 1,000MW of solar IPP. So then, we will start coming out with creative ways to now link up developers and DisCos to use the Eligible Customers Regulation. I am a bit bothered with the liquidity issues but we hear that there is another Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) intervention coming this year – about N300 or N400 billion, which is a lot of money. How will that be paid back? We need to investigate to see if it is sustainable because this will be the third intervention in about five years. If you add up all the money: N201bn, N702bn to whatever this is going to be, that is over N 1 trillion. How much are these assets when they were sold? You have sold it now and you have to regulate them properly or just go back to what it was, and you cannot go back because the investors will run away forever from the sector because it will affect the investors’ confidence. Nextier Power Dialogue has held monthly since 2016. What impact has it made? Nextier Power, is a subsidiary of Nextier Capital which has been around for seven years. It was started in 2011 by Mr Patrick Okigbo. It is with the goal of building the society we want to really be a part of. The Power Dialogue is an initiative we started in July 2016 and it holds every third Wednesday of the month. As for the impact it has made, we have looked through the sector from various angles: from tariff issues to metering, to generation, to liquidity crisis, and consumer rights. There are probably three or four different things that I can pinpoint that we have done to move the sector ahead. The mini grid and micro grid regulation was one of the first victory for the Power Dialogue. It was discussed at the dialogue and the recommendations that were made then were now imported and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) later approved it. Also, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, came to the dialogue in January 2017 to talk about the outlook for the year. The topic around eligible customer was brought up and three months later, it became a policy directive that some operators are now working with. For the metering challenges, we have had several interactions about what the metering should be, especially after the Credited Advanced Payment for Metering Implementation (CAPMI) was halted by government. From those conversations the Meter Assets Providers (MAP) regulation came up. What is the most critical issue the Dialogue has had? Tariff is a very big issue in the sector because it is a question of, is it more power supply or higher tariffs? The government is promising that if they increased tariff, power supply will increase but there is a lack of trust in the system. So customers say give me more power and I will pay more. So that issue has been very controversial. Also, the structure of the market has been an issue because many people don’t understand how you pay money to the DisCos, and they don’t remit it or pass it back to the value chain. So the DisCos have been a problem because each of them, from the Generation Companies (GenCos), the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), the Gas Companies (GasCos), have problem with not being paid. So there has been a financial issue in the value chain. Fashola orders NERC to strictly monitor DisCos, rules out tariff raise without metering Tariff hike: Consumers cry out as NLC threatens showdown Abuja DisCo meters 88,000 customers, targets 120,000 by Dec