* warns INEC, security agents against rigging The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus and the party’s presidential candidate for the February 16 election, Atiku Abubakar, has vowed that the party would crush Boko Haram insurgency in the North East and guarantee employment opportunities for Nigerians if voted into power. Speaking on Thursday at a campaign ground in Lafia, Nasarawa state, Secondus said Atiku would end the Boko Haram attacks, improve on the current state of the nation’s economy by providing jobs to the unemployed Nigerians and make life better for Nigerians. Secondus also warned security agencies against rigging the elections, saying there would be consequences if they do so. “We warn the INEC and the security agencies not to rig this election. If they want to rig this election, they are planning for crisis in Nigeria. Will you accept any rigged election? “Let them be warned that if they love this country, they should not attempt to rig this election; if they love this country, they should allow free, fair and credible election. “We have come with the candidate who will provide employment for all of you, we have come with the candidate who will wipe away poverty; he has done it before, he will do it again. We have come with a candidate who is coming with digital architecture for Nigeria,” he said. Also speaking, Atiku said, “Now, I want to ask you, do you want to continue with the poverty rate we have in this country? So, will you vote for APC? No way! Do you want to continue with the unemployment rate we have in this country? Are you going to vote for APC? Never; do you want to continue with the insecurity in this country? “Before, they said it was only North-East, today, the insecurity has gone to North-West, it has gone to North-Central, do you what to continue like this? “Because, they don’t know how to govern, and if you don’t want to continue with all these vices, I appeal to you to vote for PDP and defend your votes.” Buhari failed to deliver his mandate – Atiku Dickson warns against rigging in Bayelsa, Kogi polls PDP protesters storm N/Assembly