Security experts drawn from Ondo State and neighbouring states have called on the federal government to make funds available to traditional rulers across the country to tackle security in their domains. At a security summit held in Akure, the Ondo State capital,  the experts brainstormed on the problem of insecurity in the country and recommended that traditional rulers should take up the challenge of securing their domains. Drawn from various strata of the socio-economy, the experts spoke at the summit put together by the Ondo State government to find a lasting solution to the problem of insecurity in the state. The speakers at the event, including a professor of Criminology, Femi Odekunle; the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Gbenga Adeyanju; General Chris Olukolade and Dr Bode Kalejaiye, suggested that traditional rulers should be saddled with the responsibility of securing their domains. They added that governments should, however, provide assistance by making funds available to the traditional rulers to achieve the objective. Professor Odekunle urged the National Assembly and the Houses of Assembly in all the states to make legislation against insecurity. “There should be legislation to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of security work and administration in all the states,” he said. He also urged the government to establish an advisory social science-based ‘State Crime Prevention and Control’ body for articulation and co-ordination of the objective of crime prevention and control instrumentality in all the states. He identified corruption as the basis of insecurity in the country and urged Nigerians to support the fight against it. The Ondo State governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, in his contribution, said his administration was committed to the fight against insecurity, adding that “insecurity is a major challenge globally and there is hardly any continent in the world without its own peculiar socio-economic issues.” Akeredolu described Ondo State as “a gateway to the Southsouth, Southeast and the North, hence the challenge confronting it on security, adding, however, that his administration was prepared to tackle the problem. Insecurity: Need for traditional leaders involvement As Zamfara sanctioned traditional rulers over alleged ties with bandits Ondo traditional rulers warned against partisan politics