There are concerns over the danger of the shutdown of MTN facilities by the Kogi State government just as the 2019 presidential poll approaches. The state government had shut down the telecommunication company’s facilities over allegations of N120m tax evasion by the Internal Revenue Service (KGIRS). The director, Legal Services and Enforcement of Kogi State Revenue Service, Barrister Jamil Isah, who led his team to seal the facilities of the telecom service provider at Mount Patti, Obajana and other places in Lokoja, yesterday, said MTN had been uncooperative in meeting its tax obligations. KGIRS officials were said to have broken into two hub sites in Lokoja on Wednesday morning to shut down the power generating sets and seal the sites. At least 107 sites in Kogi, Edo and the Federal Capital Territory have been affected by that action. MTN has faulted the shutdown as it claimed that it has already made a payment of N10,500,000 on Tuesday in a bid to ensure that the dispute is settled. Communications experts are of the opinion that the move pose a threat to the safety and wellbeing of consumers on the network during the forthcoming elections. Millions of Nigerians are likely to be affected by the shutdown as it would restrict them from communicating with loved ones as well as keep abreast of happenings around them. Political analyst Humphrey Anyim said the KGIRS risk heating up the polity ahead of the decisive election period by its action. “Users of the network provider could say it was a deliberate attempt by the government to alienate electorates from the information they are sure to crave during the election period,” Anyim said. “A lot is at stake, even security agencies are bound to be affected by the shutdown, as many of them would be operating on the service provider. The last thing the government wants is to leave room for unnecessary agitation.” Another communications and business expert, Remi Akinyemi said the shutdown will affect other socio-economic issues involving average citizens like banking, e-commerce and general businesses. “Bank transactions would also become extremely difficult for the numerous customers who are registered with MTN. The move by the KGIRS is not a good look,” Akinyemi said. “A lot of people want to ensure they round up business transactions before the election weeks arrive. Ultimately, innocent citizens would be on the receiving of this action which could be resolved in a less aggressive manner,” he added. Kogi shuts down MTN over N120m tax default Kogi shuts MTN facilities over N120m tax default Kogi denies shutting down 150 telecom stations