A group of concerned Lagosians has launched a non-partisan campaign to persuade the Lagos State House of Assembly to let peace reign in the State. In a petition published on Change.org by Mr. Olufemi Wise, the group noted that the “the future of our beloved Lagos State is at stake” and stressed that their campaign “is not about taking sides in the politics of Lagos, or about being a fan of the APC, or about Governor Ambode. It is simply about ensuring any semblance of governance of Lagos State is preserved.” VIDEO: Protest rocks Lagos Assembly over plot to impeach Ambode The group is calling on concerned Nigerians to sign up and make their voice heard at https://www.change.org/p/lagos-state-house-of-assembly-enough-is-enough-of-the-impunity-in-lagos “We are hoping to get 10,000 signatures within the next few days, following which we will unveil the next steps in our plan to ensure that politics does not get in the way of the development of our dear State,” Mr. Wise said in a statement. “It doesn’t matter what party you belong to, you can add your voice and vote to the campaign,” he added. The full text of the Change.org Petition: Enough Is Enough of the Impunity in Lagos With news of the moves to impeach Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, Governor of Lagos State, there is no doubt that the future of our beloved Lagos State is at stake. For the first time since 1999, Lagos is entering the second month of a new year without an approved budget. There are several completed projects awaiting commissioning, and several more ongoing ones that are being slowed down. This petition is by concerned people of Lagos State. The cabals behind the continued harassment and embarrassment of outgoing Governor Ambode need to be opposed, and told enough is enough. This is starting to look like a throwback to the days of President Obasanjo, when unfair and illegal impeachment actions brought Governors down, just because they were not in the good books of their godfathers. This is not about taking sides in the politics of Lagos, or about being a fan of the APC, or about Governor Ambode. It is simply about ensuring any semblance of governance of Lagos State is preserved. When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. The good people of Lagos have had enough. Enough of impunity in Lagos State. Governor Ambode has been denied a chance of reelection, but he should be left to fulfil the promises he has made to the people of Lagos: infrastructure, healthcare, education, housing, environment and jobs. Lagos deserves better. That’s all we are asking for, that’s why we are asking concerned and passionate Lagosians to sign this petition.  Intrigues, power play as APC zones guber seat to Lagos east Lagos: Agbaje’s gains threaten APC’s grip How Lagos assembly is caging Ambode with impeachment threat