The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, must go through the instrumentalities of the courts, the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu has said. Issa-Onilu who made the APC position on the matter yesterday, said “Indeed, this is the true test of our constitution, rule of law and will deepen democracy.” According to him, “Where there are contestations on institutional procedures, we must allow same institutions perform their functions unhindered, autocorrect if necessary and set good precedence on future matters. This is the only way we can build strong and lasting institutions,” he said. The APC spokesman said the PDP’s attempt to hoodwink Nigerians into believing that there was a political motive behind the allegation brought against the CJN might itself be indicative of some unholy alliances. He said the likely affinity existing between the PDP and a section of the judiciary was further accentuated by the nonappearance of Justice Onnoghen before the Code of Conduct Tribunal yesterday in line with the suggestions made by the PDP governors from the South South on Sunday. On the other hand, the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has said President  Buhari and the APC were desperate to retain federal power next month. The Director Media and Publicity of PPCO, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said in a statement, yesterday, that it was APC’s plots to retain power “by force” that led to its “attempt to forcefully remove” the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. It said instead of the Presidency and the APC listening to Nigerians and retracing their steps on the issue, they rather took delight in blackmailing Nigerians and the opposition by saying they were being sympathetic to corruption. “The Buhari Presidency and the APC, in this venture, have exposed their desperation to subdue and annex the judiciary, particularly, following increasing agitation by Nigerians for the prosecution of President Buhari’s cronies and APC leaders over exposed corruption,” the statement said.