Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Plateau State 2019 Campaign Council has accused the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) of planning to disrupt Saturday’s presidential campaign of its candidate Atiku Abubakar. In a statement (after an emergency meeting) by the Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee of the 2019 PDP campaign, Abraham Yiljap, the party said it would not allow political provocations to derail its commitment to the people of Plateau who are increasingly getting frustrated by a ruling party that has resorted to thuggery to prove its incompetence. “Plateau State PDP Campaign Council has raised the alarm that certain hoodlums are planning to disrupt its presidential campaign rally scheduled for Saturday January 12, 2019. The PDP Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is leading national officers of the party to Jos to officially launch the campaign for Nigeria’s presidency in the 2019 general election. But the State Campaign Council has received credible information that sponsored groups are preparing to harrass, intimidate and attack PDP officials, members and stakeholders attending the rally. “The party therefore appeals to security agencies to act accordingly to allow for a peaceful presidential outing. We will not tolerate hoodlums trying to replicate what happened on Tuesday January 8, 2019, in Mangu after the gubernatorial flag off when the peaceful passage of party members was violently interrupted in Mangu town between the old market and the Divisional Police Office. “PDP however, assures the people of Plateau that it will continue to pursue the path of peace and decency, and to focus on issue-based campaigning for the development of Plateau. The party will not allow political provocations to derail its commitment to the people of Plateau who are increasingly getting frustrated by a ruling party that is daily resorting to thuggery to prove its incompetence and shallowness while allowing the good people to face endless suffering,” the statement partly read. It noted that the gubernatorial candidate of the party, Senator Jeremiah T. Useni has pledged to give every support to have a successful presidential campaign, and called on the people to unite and vote in PDP in the coming election to have a secure, united and prosperous state. Among the council members who attended the emergency meeting are the gubernatorial candidate, Senator Jeremiah T. Useni, his running mate, Dr James Dalok, former Senate Deputy President Senator Ibrahim Mantu, and the former Minister of Water Resources, Sarah Ochekpe. Others are former Governor of Plateau State, Fidelis Tapgun, former gubernatorial candidates of the party who contested at the primaries with Senator Useni, senatorial candidates and Chairmen of State Campaign Committees. Reacting, the Plateau State APC secretary, Bashir Musa Sati, dismissed the allegation as false and laughable, saying that they have a peace pact in the state and the APC will not do anything to jeopardize the arrangement. The APC Secretary said PDP should involve the security agencies, arrest anyone causing trouble and profile them properly to know their identity because APC members have membership cards and not anyone who carries placards or chanting party slogan He noted that the PDP can, on the other hand, organize people to disrupt the rally in order to cover up their growing unpopularity, and then blame it on the APC.