The presidential candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani, has charged Nigerians to remain dogged despite the hard times facing the nation, saying the forthcoming general elections offer a ray of hope for Nigerians who are yearning to follow a new direction. He gave the charge in his New Year message to Nigerians, saying year 2019 will bring hope that will satisfy their aspirations. He urged citizens home and abroad to be ready to face a new direction because, only a new thinking and new direction can salvage the country from those who have deliberately ensured that the country does not work for the benefit of common man. “It is a moment of sober reflection for us as a country, where bandits and insurgents have taken over our land, those who could not manage and put an end to these wanton killings, destruction of lives and prosperities are out seeking to rule again, we must unite to resist them. “I want Nigerians to think anew, the daunting task before us is achievable, we can have a brand new Nigeria where we can give our children quality education, where youth unemployment and restiveness can be reduced to near non existence. “We can also have quality and affordable private and public health system for our kids, adults and aged ones. Our economy can be transformed to become the largest in Africa and begin to compete with advanced nations of the world. “As we enter a new year, it is my hope and aspiration that Nigerians, for once benefit from democracy; we now have a golden opportunity before all of us to change our destiny once and for all and for greater good. “We must not fail to make the right choice at the next elections. I am saddened by the way and manner in which our country is being governed by the political “hawks” who won’t ever change their ways. “This has made my party to present me as the most credible alternative Presidential candidate. I urge Nigerians to take this opportunity so that we can collectively get our country on the right track. “I want to assure Nigerians of my readiness to serve when elected as the next President, my party’s campaign will start in January and be brought closer to citizens for them to see the reasons why ADP is the “Right Choice” for all, and to see why ADP should be voted for overwhelmingly at the next polls. “I wish all Nigerians a prosperous and peaceful 2019,” Sani said. ADP opts out of PDP-led coalition ADP zones presidential ticket to North ADP opts out of PDP-led coalition