The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has promised to reform the economy and restructure the country if elected president. Speaking in Uyo during his presidential campaign on Monday, Atiku accused President Muhammadu Buhari-led government of failing to improve the economy and ensure adequate security for Nigerians. He promised to give the state a refinery as requested by Governor Udom Emmanuel and urged the people not to allow the opposition party steal their future, adding that restructuring is one of his cardinal policies. “I have been coming to this state since 1998, every development that you have seen in this state has been the work of PDP. You will progress more if you continue to be PDP. Therefore, I commend the people of Akwa Ibom for remaining in the PDP. “APC said when there were coming in 2015, they would improve the economy. When they came there was only insecurity in the North-east but today insecurity bad spread to the North-west and North-central. “One of our cardinal polices is to restructure this country. If we restructure this country, Akwa Ibom is going to be more prosperous. The refinery will come. 70 percent of my government will be dedicated to youths and women. I want to hand over the baton of leadership to the youths in this country,” he said. Also speaking, the National Chairman of the PDP,  Uche Secondus, said the actions of President Buhari has shown that the government of APC is a threat to democracy, and called on the President to reverse his decision on the embattled Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. He said the country was in distress and hunger orchestrated by the APC and called on the people to rise up and vote out the party and its leaders. “Our whole country is in distress. There is hunger in the land of Nigeria caused by the APC government. We can no longer keep quiet and silence. The action of Buhari is a threat to our country. “Buhari and APC are dangerous to the existence of this country and democracy. This country must be liberated. All of you gathered together here will join hands to free Akwa Ibom state. Also speaking, Akwa Ibom State governor, Udom Emmanuel, encouraged Nigerians to vote for a president with an economic policy that will drive the economy and bring development. He said, “We are showing Nigeria that Akwa is PDP and PDP is Akwa Ibom. Today is about our presidential candidate, about the economic future of this country.  Once you are considering contesting for the president, it is your economic policy that will drive Nigerians. “It is no other person than Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. PDP is the only party that understands the problem of this country economically. We have a presidential candidate who will give Nigeria economic development, who will create jobs for the youths. He is here so that we can reaffirm our faith in him”. Buhari launches campaign, says Jonathan, PDP  ruined Nigeria Authentic Yoruba leaders have endorsed Atiku as next President – Babatope 2019 Campaigns Heat Up