The Northeast Commodity Association (NACAS), has recovered 7,000 bags of grains from Internally Displaced farmers that benefited from loan facility under the Central Bank of Nigeria anchor borrower scheme in Yobe state. The chairman of the Association, Nuhu Baba Hassan, disclosed yesterday in an interview with Kanem trust, shortly after an inspection visit to his office by officials from CBN, BOA and NAIS in Damaturu. The chairman said the recovery was the first phase of 40 per cent loan repayment by 5003 real grassroots farmers that covered a space of 11,333.5 hectres of land in the state. “Each beneficiary is paying with the grain he collected the loan to cultivate. They paid with grains like sorghum, soya beans, rice and maize,” he said. He observed that most of the recovery was from IDPs that received the loan and returned to their ancestral communities to farm. “So far, we have recovered 6400 bags of sorghum; 250 bags of rice; 150 bags of soya beans; 200 bags of maize which gave us a total of 7000 bags and more are still underway,” he said. Hassan said the development had encouraged the association to commence registration of 15,000 dry season farmers that would engage in rice and animal fattening. “Here, a loan of inputs would be made available to 10,000 rice farmers and 5,000 animal fattening across 16 local government areas,” he added. The chairman also revealed that the programme was a success despite losses incurred by over 200 IDPs farmers that were battered by flood and pests disasters. He explained that the issue of the affected farmers have been reported to the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Hassan commended the National President of NECAS, Sadiq Umar Daware, for his commitment towards ensuring the success of the programme, which had provided livelihood to over one million IDPs in Yobe state. He also thanked the federal government for the empowerment initiative, while advising the beneficiaries to keep to the terms and conditions of the loans. Traders, millers mop up rice in Kebbi Bakori grains market booms as farmers start harvest ‘FG’s policy on rice production unrealistic’