* as APC receives Ibeto, others in Minna Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said the Baro Port would be ready for commission soon. Speaking during the flag-off of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship campaign on Saturday in Minna, the Vice President said the Port would be one of the legacies President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is going to bequeath to Nigerians. He said Baro was one the failed projects that became a conduit pipe for the previous PDP government, adding that many of such projects abandoned by the party abound across the country. He urged Nigerians to bury PDP permanently during the forthcoming election as the party has outlived its usefulness and therefore have nothing to offer Nigerians. “Tell the PDP to go away as they have nothing to offer Nigerians and should be retired permanently from politics,” he said. The Director General of Buhari Campaign Organization and Minister for Transport, Rotimi Amaechi urged Nigerians to take the forthcoming elections seriously by coming out enmasse to return APC at all levels. He said PDP is fighting to return because the money they allegedly stole has finished. “They have spent the money they stole and are now fighting to return and further impoverish the country,” he said. According to him, President Buhari has been able to do in just few years what the PDP has failed to accomplish in 16 years, adding that the President has fulfilled his campaign promises to Nigerians. “Before now people cannot sleep in Abuja, Kaduna, Kano, Bauchi, Gombe, Yobe and others. Railway and other projects were abandoned but today, Nigerians are living witnesses to the transformation going on in all the sectors,” he pointed out. Daily Trust reports that key former PDP bigwigs like the former Nigeria’s Ambassador to South Africa, Ahmed Ibeto and other governorship aspirants in the last primary in the state like Ahmed Baka, Hanafi Sudan and Ahmed Dogo Koli were formally received into the APC fold. Buhari will enhance democratic governance, if re-elected-Bawa Next Level: FG to provide premium-free health insurance to poor–Osinbajo ‘Why River Niger dredging is behind schedule’