The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has called on the Federal Government to revisit the assumptions of the 2019 budget particularly crude oil production and price as well as upward review of education and health allocations before appropriation. MAN made the call in a position paper title ‘MAN Perspectives on the 2019 Budget’, presented to the media yesterday. The group said the proposed 2019 budget appeared to be an extension of 2018’s as no new grounds were explored. They noted that the allocation to power, works and housing  appeared insufficient, in the light of the prevailing infrastructure deficit. MAN further stated that the N47.29 billion allocation for education development indicates 23.4% reduction from N61.73 billion allocation in 2018. It said: “The education budget has consistently been inadequate, particularly when you compare with the huge funding needs of the various tiers of learning in the country. The share of education to national budget in the country has also been consistently below the global benchmark of at least 30%.” MAN said, in order to achieve the set budgetary objectives, it is important that Government should commence the implementation of the harmonised taxes and levies and allow the Joint Tax Board (JTB) to monitor and enforce compliance by states and local governments. They also want government to cut-down on its recurrent expenditures to reduce fiscal deficit, borrowing and service charges, while urging extra caution with its rising debt profile in view of the associated service charges and the future economic burden that it will exert on the nation. The group called for the resuscitation of the domestic refining of crude oil in the country and ensuring the operability of Independent Power Producers (IPP) for On/Off grid power generation and the Micro Grid Initiative. They also want the  government to re-classify the manufacturing sector into strategic gas users from the current commercial gas user’s classification as well as reduce Company Income Tax (CIT) from the prevailing 30% to 20% to promote higher productivity and employment in the economy. “Address the challenge of multiplicity and illegal taxes/levies/fees by ensuring that all tiers of government comply with the Taxes and Levies (Approved List for Collection) Act CAP T2 LFN 2004; and reinforce Inter-state relationship in tax administration with a view to harmonizing taxes and levies payable to each state,” it further stated. The group however noted that some of the provisions of the budget would be very important in supporting economic activities in the coming year, adding that  the huge emphasis on infrastructure development, especially power, road and rail is encouraging. As the budget stands, MAN opines that a lot of work still needs to be done while hoping that it will be passed with dispatch.