The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned the Igbo that they have nothing to gain from the presidency of PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, apart from the deceitful restructuring promise. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who addressed journalists yesterday in Abuja, said it was curious that the PDP presidential candidate had ‘tactically’ avoided speaking on his touted restructuring plans during his campaigns. Issa-Onilu said the party’s observation came against the backdrop of the now disputed “communique” issued by some members of Ohaneze Ndigbo on the 2019 general elections. He said with a few members of Ohaneze falling for Atiku’s antics, it had become clear that the purported endorsement of Atiku’s presidential ambition did not enjoy the support of most of the Igbos. He said one of such proofs was the statement by the Anambra State government, dissociating the state from what he called the dubious endorsement of Atiku contained in the equally disputed communique. “It would now seem that few people in Ohaneze are trying to misrepresent the interest of the Ndigbo and we wonder whether these people are part of Atiku’s friends that he has promised to make rich as a cardinal policy of his government? He described Atiku’s restructuring rhetoric as a convenient, simplistic and populist gimmick aimed at whipping up and exploiting perceived sentiments ahead of the 2019 elections. The APC spokesman said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration had pursued a deliberate policy of probity, inclusive governance and national spread in the allocation of national resources and developmental projects across the country. He said about 69 verifiable road and bridge projects were ongoing in the southeast., adding that they are in different stages of completion due to the funding sourced by the president Buhari-led APC administration from budgetary allocations, the Sukuk Bond and the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund. He said the APC remained the most sincere political platform working to ensure better inclusion and mainstreaming of all geo-political zones in the governance of the country, stating that “We have held constructive, purposeful, country-wide and multi-sectoral conversation on core issues of true federalism and devolution of powers in line with the Party’s Change Agenda.” “Atiku has refused to speak on the nature of the restructuring that he is cashing in on. Atiku has no plan for this country and he is not pretending about it. He has said it clearly and on many occasions that he is seeking power to be able to sell off national assets to make his friends and himself rich. There is no doubt that Atiku only intends to use and dump the Igbo people,” he said. He added, “Ndigbo and indeed all Nigerians must be wary of the machinations of conmen who now masquerade as ‘messiahs’ in the garb of politicians. Their antecedents do not synchronise with the image they now purport which is dangerous. They are latter-day converts on the issue of restructuring who hitherto occupied public offices and did nothing on the issues of restructuring. “They have now regrouped to exploit the issue of restructuring in furtherance of their selfish political interests. Their sudden silence on the issue of restructuring is certainly ominous. The Ndigbo should not fall for this fraud.” Buhari, APC jittery over Atiku’s acceptance in S/East 2019: Atiku’s SGF promise good for South-West — Ogunlewe Igbo World Union dissociates self from Atiku’s endorsement