A former governor of Bauchi state, Isa Yuguda, has said that he is ready to work as chairman of a local government if his people want him to do so. Yuguda said this on Wednesday night when he hosted the meeting of Central Working Committee (CWC) of the Presidential Support Committee, a platform coordinating over 4,000 APC support groups for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, led by its National Coordinator, Sen. Godswill Akpabio. The former governor particularly said this to express his readiness to take any role in the bid to ensure the victory of President Buhari on February 16, 2019. He said, “I have to thank Almighty God for us to be able to assemble and interact with one another. I listen to the National Coordinator as they kick-start activities in earnest in order to ensure that we achieve the objective of successfully bringing back Mr President to his seat come February 2019. “Mr National Coordinator, I recently joined. Since I joined, I have become a very active member. We have only few weeks to the presidential election. We are supposed to be working 24 hours. “We are very confident that you have what you need to succeed. As you did say, it’s not about positions you held, it’s about how effective you will be. “Whatever position you are holding, I’m prepared to work as a local government chairman now, having been a two-time minister, two-time governor and a managing director of two banks. “So, if I’m giving a job of chairman of a local government today, and my people want me to serve them, I will do that. “We should humble ourselves. It’s not about position, no, we don’t have time. Let’s just work together as a family, let’s deliver.” Also speaking, the PSC national coordinator and the former governor of Akwa Ibom, Akpabio, said women and youth were also critical to the impending victory of President Buhari. He promised that the efforts of the campaigners would be rewarded. “We must ensure that from Abuja, we move right down to where elections are held. We must go back to the units. We must have unit collators, monitors, observers, and watchers. “We must have those who will follow the results from the unit to the ward level, from the ward level to the local government level, and from local government level to the state level, and from the state level to the central collation point. “This is the reason why I believe strongly that we, PSC, have the capacity and spread. Let me say that we must bond together as a family. The only appointment I want you to have in mind is to be a coordinator for President Buhari in 2019 election,” he said. The meeting was attended by the PSC Director of Publicity, Dr Kelani Mohammed and former APC National Women Leader, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani-Aliyu, among others. Buhari appoints Akpabio coordinator presidential support committee Yuguda’s defection to Green Party triggers speculations Mu’azu’s emergence as PDP chair and Bauchi politics