The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab S. Ahmed has told all debtors to the Assets Management Corporation (AMCON) to settle all their debts or risk blacklisting. The minister who spoke at the inauguration of AMCON board members in Abuja at the weekend also said the government will embargo payments to such debtors who are still doing business with government until they reach repayment agreement with AMCON. “I have been briefed on some of the challenges facing the Corporation, which include obligors resorting to all manner of tactics to avoid honouring their obligations. Whilst some are still enjoying government patronage, others are using the judiciary and adopting legal technicalities to stall recovery. It must be emphasised that government would not deal with debtors that have failed to honour their obligations with AMCON. Payments due to some of these obligors will be put under lien until they enter into a resolution agreement with AMCON. This is because AMCON’s debts sit on the government’s balance sheet with CBN” she noted. She also charged the inaugurated board on the debts recovery. The executive management of the Corporation were appointed in August 2015 had been working a formal Board. Even with the outstanding dents, she noted that “AMCON has been able to recover over N1trillion since inception to 2018 year end. Out of the recovered sum, cash accounted for 60 percent while non-cash assets such as properties and equity securities accounted for the balance of 40 percent. Over the same period, AMCON’S repayment of its indebtedness to the CBN was over N1trillion. AMCON’s total debt obligation to the CBN, is currently in excess of N5 trillion. It is evident that the Federal Government cannot afford to write off this debt in the short term, hence, our moral obligation to pursue obligors and recover the debts owed.” At inception, the Corporation acquired over 12,000 non-performing loans worth approximately N3.7 trillion from 22 commercial banks; injected N22 trillion as financial accommodation to 10 banks. The direct impact of that action is seen in the protection of about N3.66 trillion of depositors’ funds and approximately 14,000 jobs were saved, the minister explained. Commenting, the MD/CEO AMCON, Mr. Ahmed L. Kuru said “If today AMCON disposed all the assets under it, we may be able to recover maybe N1trn, willing buyer, willing seller” thus evaig a deficit of about N4trillon. The Board Chairman Mr. Muiz Banire (SAN) said the board working the management will device other means to recover the loans. “I see some of them keep walking around in government and keep doing business with government yet they evade their obligations. One wonders why but with this directive by the government, it will aid us recover the funds. I am a legal practitioner and I am used to their tricks” he promised.  AMCON, EFCC to go after banks, officials behind bad loan Reps foreclose acquisition of new debt by AMCON Tussle for ownership of MMA2