Kaduna state governor, Malam Nasiru El-Rufai, has said electoral theft in the past induced widespread electoral violence in the state. Speaking at a high level dialogue on peaceful elections in Kaduna on Wednesday, the governor called on parents to guard, control and caution their children against involving themselves in electoral violence. El-Rufai said since he started campaigning across the state, he has noticed the reduction or total elimination of youths carrying weapons at campaign rallies saying, “At least, as far as our party, the APC, is concerned, we have made it very clear to the young people not to escort us with weapons”. He added, “Be careful of politicians hiding their children at home or either taking them to Abuja or Europe during election periods and instead engage children of the poor to give them peanuts and drugs, pushing them into mayhem and destruction and tell such politicians to send their children on such errands and the story changes”. He said: “Elections in Kaduna are equally important within the context of importance of elections in Nigeria but the UN’s presence in the state is because of the historical violence that has marred the state before, during and after elections. “The UN and National Peace Committee are in Kaduna because there is a reasonable belief of electoral violence in the state, but it is our duty as stakeholders to disappoint them by not engaging in any election violence”. He reiterated the state’s commitments in ensuring free, fair and peaceful elections and issue-based campaign, saying they are committed at governing the state from now to May 29th when their tenure either ends or renewed. El-Rufai said, “Anybody found wanting or carrying weapons at these periods will be arrested and vigorously prosecuted by the law whether they are members of our party or not. “A joint task force of the Police, NSCDC, Immigration and Prisons will be massively deployed during the elections especially to states with history of election violence to police issues on ballot box snatching or creating tensions at the polls. The Military will also be deployed as back up in the event of any outbreak of law and order. Also speaking, Kaduna state Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdur-Rahaman, said the police has engaged many stakeholders as its own man power will not be enough during the election coverage. The Commissioner also advised all to abide by the rules and do their own beat peacefully while assuring the electorates of their safety. In his remark, the UN Special Representatives of the Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel, Dr. Ibn Chambas noted that the world body attaches great importance to the country’s polls. Chambas said, “This is because Nigeria occupies a strategic place in the continent and added that the election was not about Nigeria alone.” He said once the election is conducted well, it would save the entire continent from the trouble of refugees and other vices occasioned by electoral violence He added that the UN welcomes the peace accord signed by Presidential candidates of the various political parties in Abuja as midwives by the NPC. The UN envoy said, “The UN, in collaboration with ECOWAS, has undertaken a series of visits across the country in support of Nigeria’s efforts in consolidating democracy through the holding of successful 2019 elections in line with ECOWAS principles of democracy and good governance. On his part, the National Chairman of the National Peace Commission and former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar hinted that political parties would as from next month, sign another peace accord on the outcome of the 2019 general elections. The former Nigeria leader who was represented on the occasion by the Director, NPC Secretariat, Rev. Father Atta Barkindo, said the signing of another peace accord, was to avert election violence as currently being experienced in Sudan and other African countries. Priscilla Akut, the Vice Chairperson, Kaduna Peace Commission said the commission would continue to engage relevant stakeholders to ensure peace in the state before, during and after the elections in the state. Participants at the parley include the leadership of the Jama’atu Nasril Islam, the Christian Association of Nigeria, security chiefs comprising the Nigeria Police, Department of State Service, the Nigeria Civil Defence Corpse, INEC as well a traditional leaders. 2019: Likelihood of violence my biggest challenge — El-Rufai We’ll prosecute people threatening peace in Kaduna – El-Rufai I met security chiefs on plans to disrupt elections – El -Rufai