The Centre For Youth participation Advocacy (CYPA Africa)has launched a $20,000 democracy gallery competition to document Nigeria’s journey of democracy and elections. The Executive Director, CYPA Africa, Mr Chris Iyama, who briefed newsmen in Abuja, said the project was under its “Draw for Democracy Campaign” with support from the Future African Leaders Foundation (FALF), as part of activities marking 20 years of Nigeria’s uninterrupted democracy. Iyama said that the project sought to tell the stories of Nigeria’s democracy since 1999 till date using Arts. “Through the Draw for Democracy Art Campaign, the organisation will unveil the first ever Democracy Art Gallery in Africa with more than 10,000 arts stories. These stories will comprise of where we are coming from, where we are at the moment and where we hope to be if our political institutions live up to their promises made during election campaigns. “The Democracy Arts Gallery seeks to interrogate the processes that have led to institutional failures in Nigeria and to further inspire hope to our young people in Nigeria. The Democracy Art Gallery will be unveiled at the Nation’s capital on the 29th of May 2019 which will Mark 20 years of uninterrupted democratic rule in Nigeria,” Iyama said. According to him, the Draw for Democracy Campaign would feature young talented youths across the nation using them as the catalyst to strengthen democracy. He said this would also promote youth inclusion in the democratic space as the programme would mobilize youths from different communities and schools to tell the story of democracy through arts. “Pictures and sculptures that depicted the Nigerian democracy from 1999-2019 would be collated and the best would be picked and awarded. The first prize from tertiary institutions would get $10,000, the best from secondary school would get $5,000 while the best from the communities would get $5,000,” he added. He said the Draw Campaign Training session would be organised for youths with arts talent by CYPA Africa in the six geo political zones in Lagos, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Kaduna, Bauchi and Jos.
Iyama said that the essence of this was for youths to have the consciousness of protecting Nigeria’s democracy by getting to know its history and being involved in protecting it. While urging INEC and security agencies to conduct free and fair General Elections, he also urged politicians to discontinue the use of youths as thugs and urged youths not to be allowed to serve as thugs or engage in any act of violence during the elections. Elections and Democracy in Africa: Restoring Nigeria’s Leadership 2019: Parties, stakeholders vote for early preparation INTERROGATING NIGERIA’S DEMOCRATIC PRACTICE, SO FAR…