Mrs Zaheera Baba-Ari is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria Commodity Exchange (NCX). A pioneer staff of then Abuja Stock Exchange, now NCX, who rose through the ranks to the top, Baba-Ari, in this interview, speaks on the activities of the Exchange in 2018 and projections for 2019. How were your activities in 2018 fared and would you say you are pleased with your achievements in the year? I’m satisfied with what we did in 2018. We were able to develop our trading system, the first phase, which does most of the things. We still have about three or four phases but the first phase is ready and we can trade with that. We were able to renovate five warehouses. Right now, we are in the process of renovating three more. We were able to consummate our MoU with New Nigeria Commodity Marketing Company (NNCMC), which is part of our business development. With those three things, we know that we are set to go in 2019. So, that is what we achieved last year. Also, we began research into the solid mineral sector and we started the development of some contracts. You said NCX will start trading in 2019. How will this development advance the Federal Government’s focus on diversification of the economy? This is part of what we are going to do in 2019 because all these things I spoke about now were the building blocks that we put in place to begin to generate revenue. Without that, we wouldn’t have been able to do anything. Those building blocks were not there so we started right from the basics. So, for 2019, as from February, we will start receiving commodities into these warehouses that I have told you about. The NNCMC will aggregate those commodities from the farmers and bring them into our warehouses and we will trade those commodities on the floor of the exchange. These commodities are those that have been harvested from October to December 2018. When they come in February, we are assuming, we are going to use the system of warehousing, that means the in and out of commodities over a period because each of the warehouses is about 2000 metric tons. So, assuming that each month, the 2000 metric tons is filled to capacity, it means that in a year, we will have like 24,000 metric tons coming in and out. It will be more than that and it will now become multiples of this 24,000. So, commodities will be coming in and traded on the floor. Most times, they will not remain there for more than a week or so. That is our projection. What is your revenue projection at the end of the trading year 2019? We are assuming that we are going to generate in the 2019, being our first year of actually going into operations, something quite substantial taking into consideration that we have not been generating revenue from trading. For instance, the projected production figure for example of maize for 2019 is 12.8 million metric tons; if you take sorghum, it is about 9.8 million metric tons; if you take something like soya, it will take about 750,000 metric tons; Sesame is about 180,000 metric tons. Most of these commodities I have spoken about are domestic crops. You know they are staples and they have impact on food security. Let’s assume that about 70 per cent of that would be eaten by the people and so there will be 30 per cent left and then we will now take 15 per cent. Let’s assume that 15 per cent of that is going to be traded on the exchange. The trading value for all that, for 15 per cent of these commodities I have told you about, would be about N143 billion and the revenue that would accrue to the exchange in 2019 alone based on just 15 per cent of all these volumes I have spoken about will come to N4.3 billion. That’s just in the first year we are just starting, 2019. So, thereafter we know things will increase. How will farmers benefit from this development? All these figures are going to have a great impact on the farmers because now they will get the correct value for their commodities. They will have a place where they can sale all their commodities. Even the so-called middlemen, we have not phased them out. We are not phasing them out, we are just redefining their roles. They will still help us in aggregating. They will get their commissions. It’s a win-win situation for everybody. To what extent will this help in job creation? You will now find that graduates will not even want to take jobs in the office. They will rush back to the farm because farming is going to become very lucrative for them. It’s going to be done in a very transparent manner. You are sure of being paid; you are sure of adequate warehousing facilities and also, we are hoping that before the end of this National Assembly, they would pass the bill on Warehouse Receipt Financing because it has gotten to an advanced stage. Once that is passed before the end of their tenure, people can now use their commodities as collateral to get more funds to do whatever they want to do with the fund. It’s actually a win-win situation. Government will generate revenue, the exchange will be self-sufficient, and the farmers, most importantly, will have low hanging fruits. They will be able to go back to farming. It’s actually going to be the year of the farmer as far as we are concerned. How will the trading solve the problem of post-harvest losses in the country? There are two basic reasons commodity exchanges are established in the world: market for your commodities and storage for your commodities. Because you find out that the basic problem of most farmers all over the world is storage, market and finance and with the exchange the way it has been developed, we take care of the marketing, we are into warehousing, though that is not our core responsibility. By the time we move on we will cede out the warehousing facilities and everything that relates to warehouses to the private sector because it’s not supposed to be what we do but because we are just starting, we are doing everything. So based on the way the exchange has been made or conditioned, we also ensure that people have money to do other things. They have money to go back to the farms. How do we do that? We do that through the warehouse receipting system. You use your commodities as collateral. You don’t have to sell them at harvest time. You use them as collateral. You go to the bank and then you get some money to be able to do some other things and when it’s time for you to sell you come back and take your commodities, which have been well preserved, and you get your market, you sell on the exchange or you can sell them elsewhere.