The candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the House of Representatives and House of Assembly in Ekiti State, Femi Bamisile, and Olubunmi Adelugba, have told residents of Emure Local Government of Ekiti state to vote for APC to shape their lives for good. During their campaigns to the area and neighbouring towns on Thursday, the APC candidates said a vote for the party was a vote for progress and prosperity. On the campaign trail were Bamisile’s wife, Jayeola, and daughter of the Deputy Governor, Bolaji Egbeyemi-Olagbaju. Warning against politics of bitterness and acrimony, Bamisile expressed delight for building a strong relationship with Emure and Eporo people over the years, saying that such a relationship had ensured victories for him in all the elections he had contested in the past irrespective of political platforms. Stressing that Ekiti people cannot afford to lose out in the service delivery to all Nigerians by APC-led federal and state governments, he said the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi had demonstrated that it is the best for service delivery and care for the people. He listed free JAMB and WEAC fees for students and other social services that Fayemi has in stock for Ekiti people. To enjoy the dividends of these schemes, he urged residents to vote for the administration of APC at both national and in the state levels. Egbeyemi-Olagbaju, who described Adelugba as a woman of honour and integrity who always champions the cause of the masses, urged women to come out enmasse to vote for one of their own. She urged residents to take Adelugba’s election as a gateway to rural empowerment and good life for the people. The House of Represesentives candidate, who is also former Speaker of Ekiti State Houise of Assembly, urged Emure and Eporo residents to vote for APC to enjoy the dividends of Fayemi’s empowerment and social investment schemes. He cited monthly pay for the elderly people, regular pay for workers and traditional rulers, including free feeding programme for the indigent elderly people being planned by the wife of the governor, Erelu Bisi-Adeleye Fayemi as evidence that Ekiti people would enjoy a new lease of life under APC-led administration.  Fayemi reconciles with Oni, Aluko, Bamisile, 12 other rivals LG poll: Under age, women in purdah barred from polling booths Bamidele warns Fayemi against interference in murder trial