A coalition of Civil Society in Abuja are demanding for the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen. The group made this known on Monday in a protest tagged “Occupy Nigeria” over the removal of Chief Justice of Nigeria by President Muhammadu Buhari. The group comprises of Save Ijaw Nation Group,Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Association of Former Nigerian Students Union Leaders, Coalition in Defence of Nigeria Democracy and Constitution, Conscience Nigeria and Get Involved group Spokesperson of the group, Ariyo Dare said that the action of the President was deliberately designed to stir the country into crisis, adding that he was being misguided by a cabal that wants to plunge the nation into anarchy. ” We are here today to defend our constitution.The president has taken an inglorious step by suspending the constitution. Not only that, they went as far as forging documents to suspend the the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen without due process. He, therefore, called on International Communities to place the president under travel ban. “The International Communities should comply lists of those responsible for this undemocratic act and placed them on travel ban and comply charges to be filed at international criminal court for prosecution”, he said. Similarly, a co-convener of the protest, Comrade Idris Usman described the suspension as barbaric, unconstitutional and undemocratic. “Onnoghen suspension is about due process.We are not against prosecution but due process. It means we have no constitution.The president shows that rules based on sentiment and not on laws.Its unfortunate that we are now living in a banana republic”. According to him, the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria just few weeks to the 2019 general elections calls for a serious concern. “The motive behind the suspension is suspicious.Its all about 2019 elections.By this act lawlessness, it shows that they have interfered with the upcoming elections and must be punished based on international best practice.The presidency should take caution not to plunge the country into crisis. Election is not war.There is no need to be desperate about power.The Buhari led administration should ensure that 2019 elections is fair and credible”.