The Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha Danze, has summoned officials of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (ADEC) over lack of power supply in Dobi, Paiko and Ibwa communities of the council. Danze, who was speaking during a meeting in  his office yesterday, also complained over unnecessary disconnection of electricity installations by the AEDC officials. He said lack of electricity at the affected communities was what informed his decision to meet with the AEDC officials, saying it was quite worrisome that despite the affected communities pay their bills, they hardly get power supply. He urged the AEDC officials to have synergy with the area council so that any challenge the company was facing, the area council would intervene. He noted that the meeting with the AEDC officials would address the lingering power outage in the affected communities. “I believe that this meeting will no doubt address the problem of lack of electricity in the affected communities because the villagers are seriously complaining that despite they pay bills, electricity has not been stable,” he said. The chairman therefore urged the AEDC officials to ensure they worked with traditional rulers of the three communities to address the problem of power supply in the affected communities. Also speaking, the district head of Dobi, Alhaji Sule Dobi, who spoke on behalf of Paiko and Ibwa village heads, complained of poor electricity supply to the affected villages. He appealed to the management of the AEDC to improve on power supply, saying it would encourage their subjects to pay their bills as at when due without delay. On his part, the AEDC representative of Gwagwalada, solicited for support and cooperation of not only residents of the affected communities, but entire residents of the council in paying their bills. He assured the traditional rulers that the company would continue to try its best towards improving on power supply in the area. Electricity: Illegal disconnections, fleecing, monsters for DisCos’ customers Suspected power vandal arrested in Gwagwalada AEDC assures of improved electricity supply