President Muhammadu Buhari has promised to continue tackling challenges facing the country through his second term in office if elected. The president reiterated the pledge while addressing supporters at the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign flag off in Bauchi on Saturday. According to the President, they made the same promise in 2015 and have recorded achieved a lot in the last three years. “The most important thing I want you to listen and understand is that, this leadership which Allah bestowed on us through your mandate and the cooperation you have been giving us, we will always try and keep the trust you have entrusted to us. “We will ensure that you have peace and security and economic prosperity. We made a promise that, there will be peace, because if there is no peace, nothing will be achieved,” he said. According to him, the APC promised to improve the nation’s economy and with God’s help had bumper harvests in two or three consecutive rainy seasons. He pointed out that Nigerian farmers have grown a lot of food and the money being spent on food importation has been saved. Speaking, Governor Mohammed Abubakar of Bauchi State said people of the state are always happy and ready to receive the president and vote for him as they have been doing over the years. APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole said the PDP embarked on campaign of calumny against the president because of his stance on corruption. Meanwhile, the APC has formally received two former Bauchi State governors, Mallam Isah Yuguda, Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Yayale Ahmed and former PDP deputy national chairman, Senator Babayo Gamawa and other defectors from the PDP and other parties at its campaign flag off in Bauchi. The defectors were received by the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, the campaign venue. Oshiomhole while welcoming the defectors, said they have made a wise decision to join the party at a time when there was need to support President Buhari’s re-election to ensure continuity with the good work he has started to make the country better. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Mallam Yuguda said they have now decided to jettison their personal interests and support President Buhari in his effort to rebuild the country after years of wanton profligacy by the PDP. Some of the defectors include a former deputy governor of the state, Abdulmalik Mahmoud, Kaulaha Aliyu, Dr. Sama’ila Dahuwa, Ambassador Adamu Jamba, the Minority Leader, Bauchi State House of Assembly, Markus Makama and Adamu, Bello Giade. Others are Aliyu Mai Borno, Umar A. Udubo, Hassan Mohammed Sharif, Barrister Hussaini Umar and Bashir Bukar Rimin Zayam among others. However, former Governor Adamu Mu’azu and Mahmoud Yayale Ahmed were not present at the venue. No rift with President Buhari – Tinubu JIBWIS urges Buhari, APC to fulfil 2015 campaign promises 10 things Buhari said at APC NEC meeting in Abuja