Nigeria’s crude oil daily production recorded an upward swing of about 2.09 million barrels in 2018, translating to a 9 percent increment, compared with the 2017 average daily production of 1.86 million barrels. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, said this in a statement yesterday, adding that the nation had maintained a line of consistent year-on-year improvement. Baru who made the disclosure in an end of year message to staff of the corporation, according to a statement by NNPC spokesman, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, said the GMD singled out the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), the corporation’s upstream flagship company, as the major contributor to the industry’s success story in 2018, expressing enthusiasm on the 52 percent daily crude oil production growth by the company vis-à-vis its 2017 performance. He said the average production from NPDC’s operated assets alone grew from an average of 108,000 of oil per day (bod) in 2017 to 165,000bod in 2018, describing the feat as the strongest production growth within the Oil Industry in recent times, even as he added that it was worth being celebrated. The NNPC GMD relayed to staff, a saving of $1.7billion dollars by NNPC, with corporation’s Joint Venture (JV) partners over a five-year tenor repayment plan, saying already the corporation has defrayed $1.5billion of the arrears. In the Midstream Refinery Sub-sector, Baru regretted that the nation’s three refineries had not undergone Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) for an aggregate of 42 years combined. Despite the challenge, he explained that major rehabilitation works were carried out in all the three refineries, saying, WRPC has its Distribution Control System (DCS) successfully upgraded, PHRC had major interventions in Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit (FCCU) and Power Plant Unit (PPU) fixed, while KRPC was undergoing major repairs of its FCCU, Catalytic Reforming Unit (CRU) and Crude Distillation Unit 2 (CDU2). He noted that efforts were afoot to get the original builders of the refineries to carry out TAM on them after securing favourable private funding for the exercise. In the Downstream Sector, Dr. Baru noted that even though 2018 was riddled with some supply shortages, he was delighted that the corporation rose to the occasion with the support of President Muhammadu Buhari and the resilience and hard work of NNPC staff, saying as at today, there is fuel availability in the nook and cranny of the country. The GMD disclosed that NNPC imported a total of 15,874,734.82 MT of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called petrol representing 62% increase over the 2017 supplies of 9,807,264.61MT, saying that as at today, the national oil company has 2.98 Billion litres, equivalent to over 59 days sufficiency at 50 Million litres daily evacuation rate. 