The Founder and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Rev.Fr. Ejike Camillus Mbaka, has said that it would be better for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the incumbent President Muhammad Buhari  to be allowed to complete another four years in office. Also, the controversial priest asked all the governorship candidates of other political parties in Enugu and Ebonyi States to go looking for something else to do rather than banking on taking over from Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and his Ebonyi counterpart, Engr. David Umahi, emphasizing that there was no vacancy in the two offices. The cleric further charged Nigerians to pray hard to overcome an unimaginable difficulty that would befall the country this 2019. He prayed for the protection of Nigeria this year to avert crisis or more bloodshed, and  warned the youths not to allow themselves to be used  by politicians as their  “political maggot” during the general elections. Delivering a sermon during the Cross Over Mass to usher in the New Year at his Adoration Ground, Emene, Enugu yesterday, Mbaka argued that “it is better to allow Buhari another four years to complete his eight years and handover to a better candidate than to go into another eight years of probability.” Daily Trust recalls that Mbaka, had  in 2014 December predicted the fall of the then President Goodluck Jonathan and victory of Buhari in the 2015 presidential election. But sometime last year, he warned Buhari against running for re-election in 2019 as the coast might not be clear for him. However, in his New Year Message,  Mbaka  made an about-face, stating  that President Buhari has achieved much in three years and half  than 16 years of the other group, apparently  referring to (Peoples Democratic Party government). He noted that “Since Nigeria started, we have never experienced a president that has agricultural programme like him… All these people I prayed for, there are people who do not like them.”