The Nigerian Young Professionals Forum, NYPF, on Wednesday paid a condolence visit to the family of the late former president of Nigeria, Alhaji Shehu Shagari to commiserate with them over the passing of the elder statesman. The Forum led by its chairman Moses Siloko Siasia, also visited the executive governor of Sokoto state, His Excellency Bar. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal at the Government House Sokoto to commiserate with him and the entire people of the state on the death of Shagari who was Nigeria’s second republic president. Describing him as an embodiment of great virtues and democratic ethos, the Chairman NYPF, Moses Siloko Siasia who spoke on behalf of the Forum extolled the character and good qualities, as well as the great achievements and legendary contributions made by the late former president Alhaji Shehu Shagari while calling on all political leaders in Nigeria to emulate the candor and simplicity of the late former president. According to the forum, former president Shehu Shagari is an epitome of integrity, excellence in public service, a courageous leader and a representation of who and what a public servant should be. They said he would be remembered for leading Nigeria on the part of progress and stability.  Speaking on the outstanding qualities possessed by the late leader, Siasia said: “Alhaji Shehu Shagari represents the core ideas that the NYPF are advocating for, he represents the ideals of peace, by governance and democratic freedom built on the cardinal principles of national unity, development, and inclusiveness”. Siasia went further to tell the Shagari family to continue to take solace in the fact that the impact the late president’s life had on Nigeria has lifted the country up in many ways, saying “the Man who truly embodies Integrity is the late Shehu Shagari and not the one claiming it now. Former president Shehu Shagari’s legacies will continue to live on as a man who was truly detribalized”. The Forum was received by Alhaji Bala M. Shagari (Sarkin Mafaran Shagari) who spoke on behalf of the Shagari family. He challenged the forum to hold close the teachings and learn from the lifestyle of the late president Shehu Shagari. The family appreciated the NYPF for coming on the condolence visit with a set of refined young Nigerians who represent the future and hope of the country and further challenged them of their role to reshape Nigeria Siasia also expressed appreciation for the warm reception and hospitality of Governor Aminu Tambuwal and the great people of Sokoto state who he described as very caring and loving. He commended the outstanding performance of the Tambuwal administration, which according to him, has empowered young people through Skills Acquisition Programmes and also created an inclusive platform for young people to participate in governance, which is central to the governor’s development agenda. On his part, Governor Tambuwal appreciated the forum for reaching out and identifying with the people of Sokoto state on the loss of a great leader and father. The Governor emphasized on the humility and simplicity of the late former president, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, who upon retirement still volunteered his time to serve in different directorates including the Director for Rural and Urban Development. Tambuwal charged members of NYPF to take the necessary action by getting involved in governance as, according to the governor, only by active participation in governance and politics can they create the needed inclusive government that will put the interest of young people into consideration. Other members of the forum who were part of the visit included the Executive Secretary of NYPF, Kadiliura C. Samuel, Executive Member, Najibullah Tafeda, Sokoto State Coordinator of NYPF, Muazu Muhammad and other Sokoto State chapter executive members of the NYPF. Buhari arrives Sokoto, promises suitable memorial for Shagari 2019: French President, Macron visit to Nigeria  enough motivation for young people  — Siasia FG to immortalise Shagari – Buhari