Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday expelled its governorship candidate in the 2019 elections, Senator Hope Uzodinma over alleged anti-party activities. The state Chairman of the party, Daniel Nwafor, who disclosed this at  a media briefing at the party’s secretariat in Owerri, said the action was sequel to a similar action taken by the ward executives of the party. He said the action had become necessary in order to save the party from disintegration. Nwafor said that investigation has established that the APC governorship candidate has been sponsoring opposition candidates against the party’s candidates in the state, adding that such action is capable of ruining the chances of the party in the elections. He said,  “Senator Hope has been sponsoring the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Senatorial candidate, Senator Osita Izunaso as against the APC Senatorial candidate in Imo West, Governor Rochas Okorocha; he has also been running parallel Exco in his Omuma Ward and issuing party cards without recourse to party Exco.” Reading from a statement he jointly signed with the Secretary, Hon Obioma Ireagwu, he said, “This is to inform you that the All Progressives Congress (APC) Omuma Ward of Oru East Local Government Area in Imo State has expelled Senator Hope Uzodinma from the party due to certain inordinate and anti-party activities perpetuated by him and his cohorts. “The Imo State Working Committee (SWC) of our great party has examined the processes and procedures of the sanction on Senator Hope Uzodinma by his Ward as affirmed by the Local Government organ of the party in Oru East. “Conclusively, the State Working Committee satisfied with the procedures and decision of Omuma Ward, hereby affirm the expulsion order as well”. Nwafor added: “We are saving the party; we have election in three weeks time and we cannot allow our governorship candidate to be sponsoring opposition candidates. We will no longer recognize Senator Hope Uzodinma as our governorship candidate because he is no longer a member of our party”. The party asked Uzodinma to stop parading himself as the party’s governorship candidate for the election. APC faction suspends Okorocha in Imo APC faction suspends Governor Okorocha for anti-party activities Imo APC crisis: We have no governorship candidate yet – Ekechi