The Emir of Gombe, HRH Abubakar Shehu Abubakar III, was among other dignitaries who were welcomed to the NAF conference centre, Abuja, venue of this year’s 16th Daily Trust Dialogue yesterday. He was accompanied by a large entourage of traditional title holders, representatives of the Gombe State Government. The Gombe community in Abuja also massively mobilized hundreds of people to accompany the emir, who was ushered with elaborate ceremony as traditional praise singers shouted his praise. Also in attendance was the chairman of the event, Professor Jibrin Ibrahim, who is a Senior Fellow, Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Abuja. Guest speakers include a former presidential aspirant, Dr. Datti Yusuf Baba-Ahmed; the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Social Protection Plan, Mrs Maryam Uwais and the Coordinator, Not Too Young to Run movement, Mr. Samson Itodo. Other dignitaries at the occasion included the Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, the  Country Director of Plan International, Hussaini Abdu; Director General of Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Ishaq Modibbo Kawu; Senator Usman Ribadu from Gombe State; former Minister of State for Power and Steel Malam Murtala Aliyu; the permanent secretary, Gombe State House of Assembly, Dr Sani Jauro and the National Youth Leader of APC, Ibrahim Jalo, amongst others. Also, very important personalities from academia, political class, and the business community were in attendance. The Dialogue officially kicked off with an opening address by the chairman of Media Trust’s Board of Directors, Mallam Kabiru Yusuf. While he was giving his speech he couldn’t hide his enthusiasm at the loud welcome the emir of Gombe got as he said: “the devotion accorded to the emir of Gombe is overwhelming”. Emir of Gombe, other dignitaries arrive as 16thDailyTrustDialogue kicks off in Abuja 16thDailyTrustDialogue: Youth participation in democracy promotes active citizenship – Emir of Gombe At 16th Daily Trust Dialogue: Gombe community makes a big show