The Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency (CESJET), has berated the Presidential Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, for attempting to taint the person and office of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai. Atiku was alleged to have listed Buratai among 30 persons he claimed were corrupt and working for President Muhammadu Buhari.  The former Vice president has denied making the allegation. Reacting, the centre said it was wrong for Atiku to drag the army chief into partisan politics. Osaloni Gbemisola osadua Esq, Executive Director, while addressing a press conference on Tuesday, warned the PDP presidential flagbearer against peddling falsehood that could cause injury to the integrity of others He said, “The pressure he is under, from political barometric as of today, is beyond the realization that he is set to lose the presidential election when it holds in a few days from now, the pressure is coming from the appreciation that the result of the polls will permanently and conclusively retire him from politics. “Rather than heralding a befitting end to an illustrious political career, this damning retirement would demystify Atiku Abubakar’s in the annals of Nigeria’s political history. “Most infuriating for Nigerians is Atiku Abubakar’s indiscretion in including names of patriots like Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff, which is wrong on many levels. “We consider it most unpatriotic to insult a man that is leading Nigerian troops against terrorist in this manner without substantiating the allegations of corruption against him. It is on record that the Code of Conduct Bureau has cleared him long ago and he has not been convicted by any law court. We have followed Buratai antecedents and know him as an honest and transparent man, who has conducted himself appropriately in office. How Atiku emerged as Buhari’s main challenger PDP to Buhari: Tender your credentials before INEC or apologise to Nigerians I’m with Atiku – APC Chieftain, Kwande