The acting Chief Justice of the Federation (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed, has warned judges against granting frivolous Injunctions to politicians, as their administration of justice must be seen not to be partisan. He said this yesterday in Abuja at the opening ceremony of a two-day workshop organised by INEC with support from European Centre for Electoral (ECES), and the National Judicial Institute (NJI). Mohammed said judges that would be sitting on the election petitions must be upright. Represented by Court of Appeal President, Justice Zainab Adamu Bulkachuwa, the acting CJN said judges must guard their integrity. “You must guard your integrity and the integrity of the Judiciary by avoiding acts that will bring you under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the National Judicial Council as it will not hesitate to wield the bug suck of sanctions to any Judicial Officer who is found wanting in the discharge of his duties,” Mohammed said. He pledged that they will continue to do their best to ensure that Judicial officers remain  conversant with the provision of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended and other relevant laws towards ensuring efficiency and uniformity in the quality of Judgment. He said, “You must refrain from granting frivolous injunctions. Remain impartial and most importantly, shun any form of inducement. It is mandatory for you to analyze facts based on the applicable laws without prejudice.” Muhammad said while tasking judges and other judicial officers that will adjudicate election petitions. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at the occasion, decried what it described as conflicting judgments that put the commission in difficult positions. Yakubu who said conflicting judgments have creates uncertainty in the polity, expressed confidence that the training will avail the judges the basics of the electoral process. Yakubu who was represented by a National Commissioner, Mrs. May Mbu, decried lack of consequential orders arising from judgments concerning election matters. “For our part, there are two major areas of concern. First is the issue of conflicting judgments arising from pre-electlon and post-election cases. As a firm believer in the rule of law, the commission always obeys court orders or, where it is considered necessary, appeals them in the interest of justice. “However, conflicting judgments, especially by courts of coordinate jurisdiction at the High Court level are putting the commission in a very difficult position and creating uncertainty in the process,” he said. Acting CJN warns judges against frivolous political injunctions Fighting graft in judiciary DSS Raid: Why we suspended Judges — CJN