Barely a year after he wrote an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari asking him not to seek re-election, former President Olusegun Obasanjo launched another attack on the president yesterday. Obasanjo also attacked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in his 16-page address, titled “Points for Concern and Action”, at his residence in Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Oke-Mesan, Abeokuta, Ogun State. He likened President Buhari’s administration to the era of the late former Head of State, General Sani Abacha. “When Abacha decided that he must install himself as  Nigerian president by all means and at all costs, he went for broke and surrounded himself with hatchet men who, on his order and in his interest and at high costs to Nigeria and Nigerians, maimed, tortured and killed for Abacha. Buhari has started on the same path in mad desperation. “From available intelligence, we have heard of how Buhari and his party are going about his own self-succession project.  They have started recruiting collation officers who are already awarding results based on their projects to actualise the perpetuation agenda in which the people will not matter and the votes will not count.  It is the sole reason he has blatantly refused to sign the revised Electoral Reform Bill into law,” Obasanjo said. He accused Buhari, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and INEC of plotting to rig the February 16 presidential election. He alleged that under Buhari’s watch, security institutions “are being misused to fight all critics and opponents of Buhari and to derail our fledgling democracy” adding that “Nigerians must rise up and do what they did in the time of Abacha.” The former leader also described Buhari’s administration’s tradermoni scheme as “outright idiotic.” He said: “What an act by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria lawyer, number 2 man in the Executive hierarchy; and what is more, a pastor of one of the Christian movements led by a revered, respected and upright church leader, Pastor E. A. Adeboye. Osinbajo must have gone for, “if you can’t beat them, join them”. A great pity indeed and which makes people ask the questions, “Any hope?”  Yes, for me, there is hope.  Osinbajo has shown the human weakness and proved the saying that the corruption of the best is the worst form of corruption. “His explanation that it was their government programme can only be construed to be very shallow and lopsided, if not an outrightly idiotic programme.” ‘I doubt INEC’s integrity’ “I personally have serious doubt about the present INEC’s integrity, impartiality and competence to conduct a fair, free and credible election. “And if the INEC is willing, will the ruling party and government allow it?  From what we saw and knew about Osun State gubernatorial election, what was conclusive was declared inconclusive despite all advice to the contrary,” Obasanjo said. He urged INEC National Commissioner Amina Zakari “to in honour, stay out and not be seen as a source of contamination of the election.” He also stated that “the security situation has deteriorated with kidnapping everywhere and Boko Haram more in action and nobody should deceive Nigerians about this.  With the teaming up of Boko Haram and Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP), Boko Haram is stronger today militarily than they have ever been.  Boko Haram has also been empowered by the Nigerian government through payment of ransom of millions of dollars which each administration disingenuously always denies.” Obasanjo said “Even when figures, facts and statistics are made clear to Buhari, he keeps repeating what is untrue, either because he cannot understand or for mischief purposes and that places him on the level of a pathological liar.” He viewed the trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, at the Code of Conduct Tribunal over alleged non-declaration of assets, as “a ploy to intimidate the judiciary” ahead of elections. The former president however lauded Buhari for removing Ibrahim Idris as Inspector General of Police (IGP). You’re sick, get well soon, Presidency replies Obasanjo In its reaction last night, the presidency said former President Obasanjo was sick and wished him a quick recovery. Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, said Obasanjo’s tirade against President Buhari, is “the last push by desperate politicians who can’t handle the President politically and have resorted to subterfuge. “Our first message to the former President is that he needs a good doctor for good treatment and to say to him, ‘Get well soon.’ “As repeatedly said of him, since Chief Obasanjo left office in 1979, he never let every succeeding leader of the country function freely, and this included the one he personally handpicked against all known rules drawn up by the party that put him in the office of the President,” he said. He said Obasanjo was jealous because President Buhari has more esteem than him, saying, “the sooner he learns to respect him the better.” He added that, “It is a notorious fact that in dealing with any leader that he failed to control, he resorted to these puerile attacks. As the grand patron, more correctly the grandfather of corruption as described by the National Assembly, Chief Obasanjo released today’s letter purely for the reason of rescuing his thriving corruption establishment.” He assured that the elections starting in February will be free and fair as promised the nation and the international community by President Buhari. “What Chief Obasanjo and his co-travelers in the PDP should expect is that from the outcome, we will teach them a political lesson that they will never forget. This margin will be much bigger than we had in 2015. “The man, President Buhari who has taken Nigeria’s reputation to a higher level internationally and is working hard to improve on the records of elections he found in place cannot descend to the level that Obasanjo has himself sunk. “As for his attacks of the administration’s records in fighting corruption, what the former President said is no more than evidence that President Buhari’s war against corruption is succeeding. They thought it is all a joke. “A leader who took $16 billion ‘upfront’ to supply electric power yet failed to add a single megawatt to the national grid and to date, there is no trace of the money is jittery that he will be called to account. He is a coward. “Chief Obasanjo, manifesting a confused state of mind blames President Buhari for the fall of Libya into a failed state and the unholy alliance between the Boko Haram terrorists and the ISIS, while at the same time calling it an African problem, saying “the struggle must be for all West African, Central African, North African and most East African States,” which really does not amount to saying anything new. “Nigerians looked up to him as a role model and a ray of hope to ethical and clean leadership until President Yar’Adua called him out to explain what happened to the $16bn of taxpayer’s money. It is clear that with him sitting on top of the heap of corruption, he is no different from the crowd he leads. “This language of his 16-page letter, likening President Buhari to General Sani Abacha, a man he dreaded and the one who jailed him under military laws is most unfitting from a former President of Nigeria.” “We are unable to get the words to describe a 90-year old liar, except to say that by the publication of this tissue of lies against the President, he Obasanjo, not the President, will fall from everyone’s esteem.” Spokesman of the APC, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, had earlier said that the former president was being haunted by what he did during his eight years of civilian administration. Issa-Onilu advised the former president to adjust to the imminent defeat staring him in the face. INEC: We’ll hold credible polls The INEC National Commissioner Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee Festus Okoye, said Sunday night on a live television broadcast in Abuja that the commission would critically look at the former president’s statement and act accordingly. According to him, the former president Olusegun Obasanjo has expressed his opinion. “What we are going to do at the level of the commission is to look at our own procedures and processes. And if we find out that there is a few issues that are actionable that we can take on board we making sure that Nigeria election are credible we definitely do that,” Okoye said. “But what I want to assure is that the present commission has the courage and the presence of mind to conduct a good election for the Nigerian people,” he added. He also said that the commission as a law abiding organisation is only complying with a subsisting court order on the Rivers APC governorship candidate’s controversy, it is also following the rule of law on other instances in Zamfara, Ogun among others. Obasanjo’s concerns vindicate us – PDP The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation has said the concerns raised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo detailing President Buhari’s scheme to use apparatus of state power to retain his seat vindicated its stand that Buhari was out for self-succession. The Director Media and Publicity of PPCO, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said Obasanjo’s submission has also reinforced PDP’s position that Buhari, and his party, the APC were engaging in acts that threaten the unity, peace and corporate existence of Nigeria. “The whole world can see how President Buhari and APC’s desperation for power is putting the lives of over 200 million Nigerian citizens at great risk as their actions stoke violence and push our dear nation to the precipice. Nigerians will be fools to fall for Buhari again, says Obasanjo (+video) Obasanjo’s 6 strikes against Buhari administration Season of letters