The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, at the weekend hailed the Nigerian military for making steady progress in the face of current daunting security challenges confronting the country. Abubakar made the remark in an interview with newsmen shortly after delivering a lecture at the Air Force War College (AWC) in Makurdi to mark the institution’s Strategic Leadership Week. “The kind of challenges we face in 21st century are very complex and for you to be part of the process of resolving those challenges, of providing solutions to those challenges, you must have knowledge, for without knowledge, one cannot achieve anything meaningful,” he said. The Air Force chief further explained that the decision to establish the War College stemmed from the obvious need to train senior military officers who have done extremely well in their national defence college program and are contributing significantly well to what the NAF is doing in all conflict areas. He added, “I think with what we have done here, we have laid the right foundation for them (participants) to acquire what they require to be able to disect complex issues that they might likely face in the future. From what I have seen, we made the right decision in 2016 by establishing this college.” Earlier, Commandant of the College, AVM Charles Oghomwen in his address appreciated the CAS for honoring the invitation to lecture Course 4 participants of the college as he stressed that the week was chosen for a dedicated strategic level leadership mentoring training. “We want to mould this medium cadre officers, and in doing that, we desire to give them an opportunity to learn from your strategic perspective, experiences that could guide and influence their leadership skills and acumen. “So far, we have had the Chief of Defence Intelligence lecture on Tuesday, Chief of Army Staff lecture on Wednesday, as well as the Chief of Naval Staff lecture yesterday. Earlirer this morning, we had a lecture titled Military Command and Leadership in Nigeria: challenges and future perspective by Air Chief Marshall O Petinrin former CAS and CBS. “Leadership study packages in our colleges are evolving, thus rather than only study military leadership capabilities of past generals in other climes, we are beginning to look inwards to study own indigenous generals and their leadership traits,” Oghomwen posited. Air Chief orders commanders to comply with professional code NAF to recruit 1,500 in 2016 Fish out Alex Badeh’s killers now