The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary elections in Bayelsa State might have come and gone and winners emerged, but the challenge before the party at the moment is the crisis the said primaries have succeeded in causing. Committed members appear to be worried about the development. The leadership of the party is now faced with an uphill task of putting the once formidable platform together as they struggle to appease aggrieved members before going into the general elections next month. Shortly after the last October primaries in the state to elect candidates for Senate, House of Representatives and State Assembly, some of the aspirants and members became aggrieved due to what they termed the inability of the party leadership to adhere to the guidelines and democratic procedures for free and fair primaries. They accused Governor Henry Seriake Dickson of conniving with the leadership of the party to shortchange some aspirants, especially those seen to be loyal to former President Goodluck Jonathan. Some aspirants alleged that on the election day, the names of original delegates were substituted with the aides of Governor Dickson, thereby neglecting the party’s guidelines and rules of conducting a hitch-free primaries and mortgaging the internal democracy the party is known for. For example, former President Goodluck Jonathan is said to be supporting a former chief of staff to former Governor Timipre Sylva and the All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Ogbia federal constituency, Mr Samuel  Ogboku, as well as the African Democratic Congress (ADC) senatorial candidate for Bayelsa East, Senator Nimi Bariagha Amange, since his alleged preferred candidates in the PDP, Mr George Turner and Albertine Doibo, were not given a level playing ground by Governor Dickson to clinch the party’s tickets during the primaries. Already, an aggrieved aspirant for Ogbia federal constituency, Mr Albertine Doibo, instituted a legal suit at the Federal High Court, Abuja, praying for the cancellation of the PDP primaries in Bayelsa State. He argued that the whole exercise was marred by irregularities and in total deviance to electoral processes. But during an interactive programme on Radio Bayelsa, titled, Restoration Hour, the state chairman of the PDP, Mr Moses Cleopas alleged that some highly placed persons in the party were actually working against the interest of the party ahead of the 2019 elections. He, however, argued that though the primaries in the state may not have been perfect, the party followed stipulated guidelines. He said the panel sent by the National Working Committee of the party was totally in charge of the exercise and all the stipulated guidelines were adhered to, from screening, accreditation, election and the declaration of results. The situation has divided the PDP in the state into two camps – those in support of Jonathan and those for Governor Dickson. They are trading accusations and counter claims at both leaders. Those on Dickson’s side are accusing Jonathan of supporting candidates from another political party ahead of the 2019 elections while Jonathan’s supporters are accusing Dickson of hijacking the October party primaries that produced candidates for Senate, House of Representatives and State Assembly to favour his close allies without adhering to stipulated procedures, a situation they viewed as diminishing the support base of the party. But supporters of Jonathan have dispelled the rumour that the former president is supporting candidates from opposition political parties in his state ahead of the 2019 general elections. They warned Governor Dickson against trying to blackmail the former president because of the 2019 elections, describing as laughable, the accusation that Jonathan is engaging in anti-party activities. The spokesperson of Stakeholders and Loyal Members of PDP in Bayelsa, a group sympathetic to Jonathan, Ambassador Kenny Sotonye, told journalists in Yenagoa recently that there was no way former President Jonathan, who is the highest beneficiary of the PDP in South-South, would support any other party against the one on which platform he served as deputy governor, governor, vice president and president, even if Governor Dickson is trying to rubbish his name. “Our attention has been drawn to reports making the rounds on some media platforms, suggesting that former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan is working against the interest of the PDP in Bayelsa State due to a purported rift with Governor Seriake Dickson, over the recent sham called primary elections conducted under his watch. “Dr. Jonathan, by virtue of his unwavering and unparalleled  commitment to the unity, progress and continued corporate existence of Nigeria, even without recourse to his meritorious service to the country, up to the highest office in the land, has, by his actions, earned the stripes of an elder statesman and should be accorded the respect such standing demands. “It would have been laughable if the lackeys of Governor Dickson hadn’t so far been actively trying to push the baseless claim that Jonathan was engaged in “anti-party activities” in the media as a narrative or issue up for discussion. “It is on record, and the whole world witnessed the parody of all known democratic principles that happened in Bayelsa State on October 3, 2018, which Governor Dickson and his camp have been working hard to convince Nigerians was a primary election. “It is also on record that Dr Jonathan has been too busy with national and international assignments in keeping with the dictates of his status as an elder statesman and beacon of African democracy to have any interest in any candidate or group of candidates in the Bayelsa State PDP. “Dickson, in his desire to hijack the PDP in Bayelsa State and perpetuate himself in and around the corridors of power by becoming the godfather of Bayelsa politics, is the sole architect of the current woes of the party in the state. “The fact remains that the purported battle going on in Bayelsa State is solely between the governor and his conscience as a dispute with former President Jonathan is not only disingenuous but also a case of the governor further travelling the path that has placed the PDP on the back foot as far as the 2019 polls are concerned,’’ he said. The group said that if the governor was planning to switch allegiance to the APC, he should quietly do it without trying to push baseless allegations against the former president. Consequently, in a petition to the national chairman of the PDP, Chief Uche Secondus, signed by Ambassador Kenny Sotonye Fiseye and seven other members of the  Loyal Members of PDP in Bayelsa State, they  called for the cancellation of the whole primary exercise in Bayelsa State, claiming that the processes that produced the current candidates were skewed in favour of Governor Dickson’s allies. They threatened to dump the party and support any other opposition party if the leadership of party did not hearken to their plea. The petition reads, “We have no doubt about the commitment of the leadership of our great party to fair and equitable process. It is in the line of holding political process within the concept of credibility, integrity, equity, fairness and justice that we are constrained to alert the party about the brazenly crude process that accompanied the purported October 2018 national and state Assembly primaries, which the National Working Committee appointed Hon. Williams Alamene to conduct in Bayelsa State. “The so-called primary elections, which produced all the current candidates of the party, who coincidentally were handpicked by Governor  Henry Seriake Dickson, was nothing but a mockery of democracy and a charade of the equitable process of electing people to represent the people and the interest of the party. “The process was devoid of all democratic ethics and values and against the mode of primary elections, which was ordered by the party, as other aspirants who legitimately procured nomination forms to participate in the primaries were illegally disqualified, harassed, prevented, and in some cases, shut out of the venue, all these under the supervision of Governor Dickson. Furthermore, because of the premeditated choice of the particular aspirants by the governor, party membership register was not used and eligible delegates were denied voting right and replaced with aides and cronies of the governor. “In addition, on the day of the election, materials were not made available in all the centres, and voters were shocked to learn of the result of an election, which was not conducted while they were waiting for the arrival of the officials and materials, with which the voting process would be done. “What we had in Bayelsa State during the primary election was a brazen daylight disenfranchisement of other aspirants, so the results of that exercise are products of an unholy, filthy and unjust political process, whereby other aspirants and delegates were denied their rights, thereby imposing on them, unpopular candidates who were not voted for and who has no moral latitude to represent the PDP in the upcoming elections; hence the need to cancel the primaries and ensure that the right thing is done before it is late.’’ PDP: Aggrieved members seek cancellation of primaries in Bayelsa Bayelsa PDP primaries: Aggrieved members threaten to defect ‘en masse’ Aggrieved PDP members want Bayelsa primaries cancelled