A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives candidate for Ikeja Constituency, Hon. Mutiu Kunle Okunola on Saturday said President Muhammadu Buhari-led government has become a warehouse for corrupt politicians. He said all the politicians who defected from PDP to the All Progressives Congress (APC) did so to get succour and cover up for their corruption cases. Speaking with Daily Trust during a house-to-house campaign in Ikeja starting from Ojodu-Berger, Okunola who is seeking to unseat the incumbent Hon. James Faleke, vowed that the PDP would reject what he called the “obnoxious” actions of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to allegedly rig the elections in favour of the APC. Okunola insisted that he defeated Faleke in the 2015 election but the result was altered at the collation centre, adding that he was prepared and ready to thwart any form of rigging because the people are behind him. He said the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, would deliver the changes Nigerians are yearning for. “We are skeptical about INEC and we will be looking at them. We will reject all their obnoxious moves to rig our elections and we are ever ready because it is the people that are talking this time around. “All the corrupt people in Nigeria today in PDP have all defected to APC including the recently accused Deputy National Chairman of our party. He has defected to APC and Buhari is a warehouse for corruption in Nigeria”. He promised to religiously implement his manifestoes which bother on women and youth empowerment, saying he has already opened a constituency office adding that the office could be burnt down if he failed to deliver on his promise. “My phone number is there, my constituency office is there, it is my personal property, if I didn’t do well, people can burn it down. I am ready for the people of Ikeja; I want to represent them and I want to make the change a positive one for that matter. “I have a programme for the youth, I have for women empowerment, I have for the aged, I have for the oppressed in the society. I am a business man”, he added. According to him, Ikeja constituency deserves a facelift and promised to facilitate this if elected. “We have to give Ikeja a facelift in terms of tarring of all the roads in the wards and constituencies in Ikeja. If you go to Ikeja, you find out that most of the roads were tarred in about 15, 20 years ago; the other ones are face-lifting. “They have not constructed new roads, no new bridges to link. Look at Omole Phase One to the Express road, they ought to have put an overhead bridge,” he said. Kogi: PDP asks Faleke to quit N/Assembly APC safe haven for corrupt politicians says Secondus Buhari: Lagos APC holds rally, prepares for gov election