The Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, and the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, were colleague-governors until November, 2016, when the latter’s tenure expired at the end of two terms as the Governor of Edo State. The two fraternised in the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) and among the governors elected on the platform of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) before moving to the APC when the party was formed in 2014. Interestingly, Amosun was one of the select governors who commissioned some projects during a week-long activities marking the end of Oshiomhole’s eight-year tenure. Some of the projects he inaugurated were the four-lane seven kilometres Second East Circular Road and the Arinze Primary School in Benin City. In his remark at the inauguration, Amosun said, “You will agree with me that the best thing you can give to anybody is not money, it is not a big building or any other thing; it is education. Education is something that brings everybody together. It puts you on the same level, on the same pedestal; whether you are rich or small. Once you are educated, there is nowhere you cannot be. There is nobody you cannot compete with. And we have to thank the hardworking comrade governor for providing this opportunity for us.” However, two years down the line, Amosun and Oshiomhole’s mutual goodwill appears shattered. No thanks to the disputed governorship primary which edged out the Ogun governor’s anointed candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, in favour of Dapo Abiodun, once Amosun’s ally. The seed of discord was sown in October, 2018, when two governorship candidates emerged. The Mohammed Indabawa-led panel sent to the State by the National Working Committee (APC) declared Abiodun winner, while the Derin Adebiyi-led state executive of APC announced Akinlade as the winner of another primary it conducted. The emergence of two candidates in the party led to series of allegations and counter allegations. While Amosun’s camp was embittered that the Indabawa-panel did not conduct any primary, the NWC questioned where the Adeniyi-led executive “conducted a primary and declared Akinlade winner.” The question then was, “Who will eventually emerge candidate? The fate of Akinlade and Abiodun would soon be in the hands of Oshiomhole, who had the duty to submit names of the party’s candidates to INEC. Interestingly, the APC chairman not only submitted Abiodun’s name to INEC, all the 26 state assembly aspirants loyal to Amosun lost the party’s tickets. The party, however, conceded senatorial tickets to the governor’s camp, including Ogun Central, where Amosun seeks to represent. Out of nine House of Representatives tickets, four of the governor’s men were edged out, including the incumbent, Mikky Kazim, who represents Abeokuta North/Odeda/Owode/Obafemi. Amosun, in series of blistering remarks, believed Oshiomhole was acting the script of some forces who he later termed “Lagos Cabal”. But the former Edo State Governor and ex-labour leader was ready to give his instant response, thereby leading the duo to continue in a seemingly unending media altercation. Amosun specifically fingered a former Governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the party, Bola Tinubu, and a former Governor of Ogun State, Segun Osoba, in the “electoral fraud”. He said, “The president already knows there was no election in Ogun State. He knows that they just went to Lagos, wrote all results, and that what they did is a fraud. If the NWC or the national chairman said there was any election in Ogun State, it was all fraud. That is what I said.” Oshiomhole fired back while addressing the APC crises in Ogun, Zamfara and Imo, accusing Amosun of imposition of a candidate, saying what he submitted was alien to APC constitution. He said, “However, the Ogun State Governor decided in his wisdom to conduct his own self-help, I mean resulting to what you can call self-help, by conducting what he called his own primary. The Secretary to the Ogun State Government (SSG) became the chief returning officer, and I and other NWC members were watching Channels Television and we saw the SSG proclaiming himself as the returning officer, and purported to have conducted primary.” Reacting in a statement by his Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Adedayo Adeneye, Amosun noted the unsavoury language used against him by Oshiomhole, but said he (Amosun) “will not descend into the gutter to exchange words with him (Oshiomhole).” Continuing, Amosun wondered why the APC chairman would accept the result of the primary conducted by the Lagos APC, but dismissed a similar scenario in his state. Amosun querried that, “We wonder why Oshiomhole accepted the result of the primary election in Lagos State when the result was also not announced by the state electoral panel. Why will the same scenario be acceptable in Lagos State but regarded as self-help in Ogun State? Is it because it was executed by the Capo Di Tutti (boss of all bosses) in Lagos State?” Amid the verbal war, the Department of State Security (DSS) in November, 2018, swooped on Oshiomhole over allegations of collecting bribe during his party’s primary elections and Amosun washed his hands off Oshiomhole’s travail. Amosun said, “I don’t have to hide under a finger to fight. If there is need for me to put my views across, you know me by now that I will do it.” Despite Amosun’s candidate’s defection from the APC alongside others to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), the verbal war continued. At a meeting with APC and APM stakeholders, Amosun openly threatened to work against Abiodun of the APC in the gubernatorial poll. But for Oshiomhole, APC would win Ogun “without Amosun’s support.” Dismissing Amosun’s threat, Oshiomhole said, “Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is from Ogun State. The state is one of the most enlightened states in Nigeria. They have a huge history; they are not in a political kingdom headed by one person. “If they were looking for true reconciliation, they wouldn’t have done what they did (defection of aides). That is not how democracy works. Nigeria must grow beyond the syndrome. ‘I’m the governor, I will decide.’ You have only one vote. With due respect, I was once a governor. Overall, APC is much stronger now.” Just last week, when it appeared the verbal war was abating, Oshiomhole re-ignited the battle following dissolution of the Amosun-backed state executive of APC. The national leadership of the party later set up a caretaker committee in replacement of the dissolved exco. Expectedly, Amosun said the decision would not stand. “I want to assure you that this executive that God has used you to put together, the executive members, will be there for the next four years. They will serve their term,” Amosun dared. And so the war seems to continue into the 2019 general elections without any likely truce between the two political heavyweights. Brief transcription of Oshiomhole’s speech on APC’s stand over Rivers and Ogun states Primaries: APC clears path for sitting govs Amosun dares Oshiomhole, says Ogun APC excos will complete tenure