President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will fully be in charge of his second term campaigns. Buhari who made the disclosure during the inauguration of his presidential campaign council at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, said he would not allow his job to suffer during his campaigns. The president who said the campaigns would be based on their performance in the last three and half years, urged the council members to resist being provoked. “Even though we have only 40 days, this campaign is going to tax us all because we intend to touch all corners of our great and vast country. But I must also add that though we will all be deeply involved, I would like to assure the nation that I will do my part without making governance or my work suffer,” Buhari said. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, my co-chairman, will be fully in charge, and is going to be on 24-hour vigil. “That is to say, the operational buck of this campaign stops at his table, and I therefore urge all of us in the leadership of this campaign, in the field operations on the campaign trail and in the secretariat to consult with Asiwaju whenever guidance is needed,” Buhari said. He said the Director-General, Rotimi Amaechi, will have overall responsibility for all aspects of the campaign, including field operations; while the secretary will be responsible for all administrative and treasury-related activities of the council. He appealed to party members to resist being provoked, but remain focused and civil in their campaigns. “Let us engage our citizens on issues and ask for reflection on the comparative difference between 2015 and 2019 on security, economy and corruption and abuse by those entrusted with leadership in Nigeria. “As we embark on the campaign to secure mandate for the next level, I want to acknowledge the sacrifices and contributions of all stakeholders who have endeavoured to keep our party united, and our governance successful. I urge members of this formidable team to always keep their eyes on the ball, which is the success of our party at the polls,” Buhari added. Reiterating his commitment to free and fair elections, he said, “If there is one legacy I want to leave is the enthronement of democracy as a system of government. And for democracy to be enthroned, elections must be free and fair. “That means citizens have a right to vote for candidates of their choice without intimidation in any form. I have warned INEC and security agencies to that effect. We will keep insisting that votes must count,” he said. Breaking: President Buhari puts Tinubu in charge of his re-election campaigns Buhari drops hints on second term Rift between Buhari, Tinubu over ministerial list