The Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) has threatened to drag the presidential candidate of the party and a former minister, Oby Ezekwesili to court over campaign funding. The national chairman of the party, Gani Galadima, made this disclosure during a press conference on Thursday, few hours after Dr. Ezekwesili withdrew from the race. A statement issued by the spokesperson for the Obiageli Ezekwesili Presidential Campaign Organisation, Ozioma Ubabukoh, said the former Minister withdrew to help build a coalition to defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the election. He asked her to return to the party all the donations “from all over the world” because the party would have to account to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “We may take her to court. She was just using us to play,” he said. READ: ‘Oby Ezekwesili chickens out’ Galadima who accused the former minister of education of not showing seriousness in her campaign, said the party will back the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, APC.  “The reason for calling this press conference is to let the world know about the presidential aspiration of Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, which in actual fact, is not the truth. I have been put into confidence by one of her aide named Iyinoluwa Aboyeji that she only wanted to use the platform of the ACPN to negotiate to be Nigeria’s finance minister “This she does not deem fit to inform the party whose mandate she is holding. If you observe, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili is the only presidential candidate who was so militant in her campaign without any tangible thing on ground to indicate any seriousness in the prosecution of her campaign. “No campaign secretariat, billboard or great commitment on ground to indicate any seriousness. It is on this ground that the ACPN is withdrawing support for her presidential aspiration and endorsing the second term bid of President Muhammadu Buhari to take Nigeria to the next level.” Ezekwesili picks Galadima as running mate I‘ll defeat Buhari, Atiku — Ezekwesili ACPN promises to lift 80m Nigerians out of poverty if elected