The new cement product launched by Dangote Cement Plc is expected to address the challenges associated with building construction in swampy areas. Undoubtedly, lots of developers try to avoid constructing on swampy land because of the cost of getting it right but in areas like Lagos State where it is increasingly getting difficult to get dry plots of land, swamps or waterlogged plots are inevitable. However, the new innovative cement, according to the Group Managing Director of the firm, Mr. Joseph Makoju, would work better in such areas and give builders perfect result due to its strong quality. Majoku spoke in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital over the weekend, while introducing the product to engineers, builders, block makers and the general public in the Niger Delta region. He said: “For a swampy area like this, this innovative cement becomes a much better offer to use because the terrain with higher sulfur requires a cement product that is stronger, with higher strength to work better and give perfect result.” Represented by the Chief Marketing Director of Dangote Cement Plc, Funmi Sanni, the MD noted that the product is 100 per cent local content, disclosing that it is made from limestone. He further noted that the new cement product is currently the highest bagged grade of cement in the country with 42.5 grade, adding that it sets after an hour, due to its top quality. Makoju said the product is affordable to all, noting that the firm is doing its best to ensure good road networks to ease transportation of cement across the country, and commended government’s effort on infrastructural development. He stated that Dangote Cement is made in Nigeria but loved across Africa because of its high quality. “And it is because we can vouch for our products’ high quality that we are in so many African countries. We are the king in this business as we control more than 60 per cent of the cement market. “We introduced to you 3X 42.5R, we have Falcon, and now we are rolling out BlocMaster. We want the name to resonate anywhere cement is mentioned; that is why we called it BlocMaster,” he said. Meanwhile, members of the Block Moulders Association in Rivers State have lauded Dangote for introducing the high grade cement to Nigerians. Chairman of the association, Mr. Lucky Uche, however appealed to Dangote to make the product affordable to enable the group maintain the approved standard required by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria. Endorsing the BlocMaster Cement, the Director General of Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Joseph Ugbaja, said it is another quality product from Dangote Cement; a company that is known for its strict adherence to standard as stipulated by the authorities. He noted that Dangote Cement has now produced a higher 42.5 grade of cement for the use of block makers. Ugbaja said his organisation has been making routine visits to Dangote Cement plants across the country and the company has never been found wanting when it comes to meeting standards. “They always exceed stipulated standard. We are very proud of them,” he said. Dangote tackles building collapse with new cement Cement price: Will presidential directive halt the hike? Confusion trails Dangote cement price review