Perhaps, the agricultural sector remains the greatest beneficiary of the recent efforts by the Federal Government through the Ministry of Water Resources to reposition all the River Basin Development Authorities (RBDAs). The repositioning, many experts believe, will ensure all year round farming activities that will boost food production and help the diversification policy of the government through agriculture. The minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman H. Adamu, had upon resumption of office, insisted on completing about 116 abandoned projects of the ministry rather than embarking on news ones. Then, the state of the RBDAs could as well be termed abandoned projects and the minister is of the belief that diversification through agriculture couldn’t be possible without all year round farming, which only the RBDAs can guarantee in many parts of the country. The minister immediately began the restructuring of the RBDAs and appointed new professional management teams. According to the minister, the effectiveness of the RBDAs will be measured by the amount of additional hectares of land they are able to bring into cultivation, efficiency of extension services and agricultural produce output. Consequently, the RBDAs have introduced the concept of integrated agricultural practice, known as the Songhai Model in each of the 109 senatorial districts of the federation. In addition to this, is the commencement of the Graduate/Youth Farmers Empowerment Programme in all the RBDAs, riding on the Songhai Model and aimed at engaging carefully selected participants in batches of 50 to be trained in various agricultural activities. A reliable source in the ministry said the RBDAs are presently undergoing structural reforms towards partial and eventually full commercialization of their operations. The National Council on Privatization (NPC) recently approved the appointment of a transaction adviser to guide the process. A document seen by our reporter shows that the Ogun/Osun River Basin Development Authority has embarked on the rehabilitation of irrigation scheme in Lagos State, and distributed water pumps to Fadama farmers in the area. They have the Graduate Youths Employment Scheme where many youths are benefiting. They have ground water development boreholes located in Ogun, Osun, Oyo and Lagos states. They also have solar powered boreholes and equally adopted the green house technology for crop production. The authority also completes the construction of three centre Pivot Irrigation System, rehabilitation of Itoikin Irrigation Scheme, Lagos State and the Iragbiji Earth Dam. Also, in Benin/Owena River Basin Development Authority, the integrated farm comprises various farm enterprises like poultry, piggery, fishery (aquaculture), the agro-forestry and the market garden section. A unique farming method, the integrated farm is entirely organic, with no use of synthetic or inorganic fertilizer, pesticide, herbicide, fungicide or any other conventional chemicals used in present day agriculture. At the Chad Basin River Development Authority, there has been wide range of irrigation schemes, which, although, have been affected by the Boko Haram insurgency, could not be easily accessed. But as peace is being restored, farmers are being mobilized back to sites. The document shows that the Cross River Basin Development Authority with catchment areas in Akwa Ibom and Cross River states has replicated the Songhai Model of farming, providing improved water supply and different water schemes. The Lower Niger Basin Development Authority, established to cover Kwara and Kogi states, has five major irrigation projects and 35 other small irrigation projects under construction, in addition to hydro-meteorological services where it collects data and produce reports which are made available for public consumption from time to time. It also has agricultural improvement intervention and has equally introduced Graduate Youth Employment Scheme where youth are trained in various farming skills and creation of job opportunities. At the Anambra/Imo RBDA, which has its key function as undertaking comprehensive study of both surface and underground water resources for multipurpose uses, the authority has equally gone far in maintaining boreholes, dams, irrigation and drainage systems and completed 35 dams and 85 erosion projects. It has equally constructed solar powered boreholes, in addition to adopting the Songhai Model of farming. The Upper Niger River Basin Development Authority, apart from adopting the Songhai farming method where different crops and livestock are presently getting ready for harvest, also embarked on dam projects like Rafin Yashi Dam, Egbea Gaba Dam, Kuseki Earth Dam, Maitozo Dam, Chori Small Earth Dam, Likarbu Dam and Kudan Dam. The Hadejia/Jama’are River Basin Development Authority which has catchment areas as Bauchi, Kano and Jigawa states, has rehabilitated six dams and constructed four others that have ensured water supply in the areas, in addition to also rehabilitating water schemes that have brought about 10,000 farmers back to business. Also, 120 solar powered boreholes and hand pump schemes were provided. The Niger/Delta River Basin Development Authority now has world class laboratory where soil and water are tested, thus generating enormous revenue for government. In addition, it has started production of packaged water in 50cl and 70cl categories where up to 500 cartons are produced per day. They are also into Public-Private Partnership to ensure food security, the minister stressed. The Lower Benue River Basin Development Authority has rehabilitated a number of dams and established demonstration farms for economic emancipation. To encourage farmers, specifically, the RBDA has supported them with farming tools and water pumps and has mobilized them to return to their farms, and the Songhai farming is already yielding positive developments there. Some stakeholders who spoke with our reporter expressed worry over the facilities at the various irrigation sites under some of these RBDAs. They alleged that some of the facilities like pivoted water sprayers had been vandalized and no longer functioning in most of the sites. The water minister, in response to some of the allegations, assured that all the facilities would not only be made functioning but accessible to interested farmers. FG begins processes to commercialise river basin authorities The Massive MDG Mess: How Nigeria’s water ministry steals billions, then leave the taps dry Minister cautions River Basin boards on overzealousness