Professor Jerry Gana has resolved to head to the Supreme Court after Thursday’s ruling of the Court of Appeal which nullified the judgement of an FCT High Court which earlier declared him the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the 2019 general elections. This came as the SDP National Chairman, Chief Olu Falae, said the leadership of the party had resolved that all those involved in the litigation, including the party, Prof. Gana and Donald Duke, who was returned as the presidential candidate, must abide by the ruling of the Appeal Court. Prof. Gana, who addressed journalists on Friday through the Director General (DG) of G19 Presidential Campaign Team of Prof. Jerry Gana, Dr Ike Neliaku, said the appeal court ruling was erroneous, contradictory, and a miscarriage of justice. Dr Neliaku, who picked holes in the alleged skewed composition of the Appeal Court Panel and the purported suspension of the effective date of the new SDP constitution by two because it was submitted to the INEC on October 8, 2018, said it was troubling and a baffling trajectory in Nigeria’s jurisprudence to make the electoral body a part of constitution making process of political parties. “Their Lordships’ importation of some elements into the judgement, which were neither canvassed nor part of the matter at the lower court is very strange…. If the logic of the judgement is to be followed, it implies that all the congresses, primaries, appointments, activities, and the national convention, conducted by the party from June 1 to October 7, 2018, in accordance with the provisions of the new Constitution, were null and void. “Arising from the above and many other lacunas and contradictions in the judgement, we have carefully weighed the views and options presented by our stakeholders and supporters across the world, and resolved to accede to what is in the long term interest of our democracy. It is therefore our considered opinion that the judgement of the Court of Appeal is erroneous, contradictory and a miscarriage of justice. “The decision is therefore not acceptable to us. Accordingly, our candidate, Prof. Jerry Gana, CON, has resolved to appeal the judgement at the Supreme Court. We believe that, apart from setting the records straight and clarifying matters of Constitutional Order, this will strengthen our electoral law, enrich our jurisprudence, as well as deepen and widen our democracy,” said the campaign DG of Prof. Gana. When told about the implication of going to Supreme Court at this point in time, Neliaku said “ultimately, it is the party that is voted for. The only thing is that the candidate influences the volume of votes, which is what Prof. Gana is bringing on board. So, let’s understand the issue very clearly, it is the party that will be voted for. Since he (Duke) has the capacity, followership, competence, the floor is open. Let us watch the dance and see how far the dance will go.” Addressing journalists yesterday in Abuja in company of SDP National Working Committee (NWC) members, Chief Falae said the party had lost quality time which was critical to the overall performance of contestants and the party in an election season. The party chairman, who said no member would be victimized or sanctioned for any excesses committed while the controversy lasted in the spirit of reconciliation, urged members to be mindful of their actions and utterances. Falae, who did not expect that the case would be pursued at the Apex court, said the reconciliation committee led by Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali did a wonderful as Duke promised to work for Prof. Gana if he won at the Court of Appeal, while the second contender did not commit himself to the ‘gentleman agreement’ without consultations. He promised to enforce discipline in the party and warned that the “party might not be able participate in the presidential election” if the litigation proceeded beyond this period. SDP crisis deepens as party youths demand scribe removed Submit Gana’s name to INEC within 24 hours, SDP youths tell Falae SDP national chairman absent as Gana unveils presidential campaign