President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the electorate in Kogi State not to make the mistake of returning the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to power. Buhari said the return of PDP would derail the country to the path of retrogression and looting of the nation’s treasury. The president, who was speaking in Lokoja, yesterday, during a presidential rally to drum support for his second term in office, said the 16 years of PDP in power were characterised by widespread looting and abuse of office. According to him, over $16 billion was said to have been expended on power by the previous administrations of the PDP but the nation never enjoyed power supply. He said all the monies that accrued to the country during the oil boom era under the PDP-led government were looted and the Nigerian masses subjected to untold hardships. The president, however, reaffirmed his commitment to the fight against corruption, saying every kobo stolen from the treasury by past leaders would be recovered and paid back into the nation’s coffers. “What they (PDP) will try to do is to cover the theft they have committed against the nation. I assure you we will recover all the stolen money and take it back to the treasury. “We are making the roads; we are building the railways…. Reflect on what we have done and what we have ahead for you compared to what they (PDP) have done”, he said. Speaking further, President Buhari noted that Nigeria would be able to tackle unemployment headlong if Ajaokuta Steel Company was completed and functional, assuring that his administration was committed to the resuscitation of the steel plant. President Buhari thanked the people of Kogi for coming out in large number to receive him despite the short notice, saying their turnout was indication of their love for him and the ruling APC. Speaking earlier, Governor Yahaya Bello asked APC supporters to vote and defend their votes, saying they should not be intimidated by anybody.  “If they try us, we will try them,” he warned. He said the contest between Buhari and others was a “fight between bad and good, corruption and integrity”, stressing that another term for President Buhari would guarantee better living conditions for the citizenry. Looted treasury necessitated Edo’s $75m loan –Oshiomhole APC gains as massive defection rocks PDP in Kogi Senator tackles PDP over ultimatum to Buhari