…politicians plotting to disrupt polls in Kaduna – Police  The chairman of the National Peace Committee and former Head of State Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, says all presidential candidates will sign another peace accord next month. Speaking at a high level dialogue on peaceful elections in Kaduna yesterday, Abdulsalami said the candidates would sign the accord to accept the outcome of the elections if adjudged free, fair and credible. Abdulsalami, represented by the Director, National Peace Committee Secretariat Rev. Father Atta Barkindo, said the signing of another peace accord, was to avert election violence as currently being experienced in Sudan and other African countries. “Since last year, the commission has had series of meetings with critical stakeholders and that is why on 11th December,  2018 we signed the accord for peaceful conduct and rallies. “Next month, we are also going to sign another with all the presidential candidates in terms of accepting the outcome of the elections if they are adjudged to be free, fair and credible”, he said. Kaduna State Commissioner of Police Ahmad Abdur-Rahaman said his command had intelligence reports that some politicians were planning to use thugs to disrupt elections and snatch ballot boxes, saying “I pray and hope they will refrain from their decisions because the police and other security agencies will never allow such to happen”. Governor Nasiru El-Rufai asked stakeholders to be careful of “politicians hiding their children at home or either taking them to Abuja or Europe during election periods and instead engage children of the poor to give them peanuts and drugs pushing them into mayhem and destruction and tell such politicians to send their children on such errands and the story changes. “The UN and National Peace Committee are in Kaduna because there is a reasonable belief of electoral violence in the state, but it is our duty as stakeholders to disappoint them by not engaging in any election violence. Pre-election period,  campaign period and post-elections period violence is usually induced by politicians who give youths money and drugs to harass political opponents which results to violence. “The control of these periods is in our hands as politicians and unless we decide to work together to end the menace, it will spread. I call on community leaders not to allow politicians use youths as thugs during elections due to its dire consequences”. UN Special Representatives of the Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel, Dr. Ibn Chambas said if the forthcoming elections were conducted well, it would save the entire continent from the trouble of refugees and other vices occasioned by electoral violence “The UN, in collaboration with ECOWAS, has undertaken a series of visits across the country in support of Nigeria’s efforts in consolidating democracy through the holding of successful 2019 elections in line with ECOWAS principles of democracy and good governance. The UN welcomes the signing of the Peace Accord on 11 December 2018, between the political parties and their presidential candidates in Abuja, which reinforced their commitment to peaceful campaigns. “I am aware that similar peace accords have been signed or are being signed in various states, particularly those considered as potential hotspots during this election, thus providing additional reassurance for credible, free and fair elections,” he said. 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord Atiku signs 2019 peace deal, asks Buhari to sign electoral bill UPDATED: 2019: Atiku absent as Buhari, others sign Peace Accord