A married woman, Habiba Usman, 20, allegedly faked her own kidnapping with the intent of obtaining money from her husband, Malam Usman Alfa. Habiba who was said to be pregnant, had left her matrimonial home in Beji, community, Bosso local government area of the state to attend an ante-natal clinic at the Minna General hospital on  December 28 but did not return. Source said after efforts to locate her proved abortive, the husband was said to have alerted the wife’s parents and relations who also made efforts to reach out to places where they suspected she might be but to no avail. “Later that night her husband received an anonymous call demanding for the  sum of N4 million as ransom before she will be released,” the source explained. The husband in collaboration with family members were said to have beaten down the price to N150, 000, which was paid before the lady was released. However, the husband had earlier alerted the police in Beji about the disappearance of his wife. North Central Trust learnt that the police had traced the calls to Sarkin Pawa Local Government Area, but the suspects were said to have later relocated to Tunga area of Minna town on collecting the ransom. The State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Mohammed Dan-Ina Abubakar said the police had commenced investigation immediately the complaint was lodged. “Immediately  police  operatives attached to Anti-Kidnapping,  Security Intelligence Bureau (SIB),  and  Bosso Police Division carried out intelligence-led operations,  trailed the suspects from Sarkin Pawa to  Tunga area in  Minna. “Two  principal suspects, Umar Abubakar, 28, of Chanchaga Local Government Area and Musa Abubakar, 22 of Sauka Kahuta in Miinna were later arrested in connection with the case. “In the cause of investigation, it was revealed that the victim conspired with the duo and masterminded her kidnap in order to get money from her husband,” DSP Abubakar explained. He confirmed that the gang received the sum of N150,000 before she was set free. He, however, said that N140,850.00 was recovered from the three suspects as exhibit. He said the case was still under investigation. How women still suffer in our homes Kano sues woman for giving birth day after mass wedding Woman sues ex-husband for refusing her to re-marry