The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has urged the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency, review downward, import levies on new, used cars and commercial vehicles to 15 per cent from the current rates of between 50 and 25 per cent. LCCI says the automotive policy proclaimed by then President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration in 2013 has created opportunities for corruption and extortion by agencies of government. According to LCCI’s director-general, Muda Yusuf, five years after the policy was initiated, it has not only failed to achieve the desired outcomes, but has adversely impacted the cost of doing business, welfare of the people, government revenue and the capacity of the economy to create jobs. “The policy has also penalised stakeholders in the sector that are compliant with extant rules, taxes and tariffs applicable to the automobile sector. The cost of vehicles has risen beyond the reach of most citizens and corporate bodies. The impact has been largely negative with far-reaching consequences. “The automobile sector was hit by the double shock of over 100 percent currency depreciation over the last five years and an import levy of 50 per cent on new cars and 25 per cent on used vehicles and commercial vehicles. This is in addition to the import duty of 20 per cent on new cars and 10 per cent on used vehicles and commercial vehicles,’’ he said. He said the high cost of vehicles has taken a toll on the economy, from a logistics point of view. He therefore suggested that the import levy of 50 per cent on new vehicles should be reduced to 15 per cent, in addition to the 20 per cent import duty, and the import levy of 25 per cent on commercial vehicles should be reviewed downwards to 15 per cent; in addition to the 10% import duty. He said patronage of locally assembled vehicles by government and its agencies should be more rigorously encouraged and enforced. “Vehicle purchase finance facility at single digit should be put in place to boost demand for automobiles. Age limit of used vehicles should be reduced gradually over time to lessen road safety risks”, he also urg LCCI calls for urgent review of tariff on solar, medical equipment Extend CRR window to other sectors, LCCI urges CBN The new tariff on imported cars