The new Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State Command , Mr.  Asuquo Amba, has resumed with a promise to strengthen community policing in the state in order  to reduce all forms of criminality. Amba also promised to ensure that his men and officers operate within the ambit of the law and shun all forms of illegalities that could put the force into disrepute or embarrass the nation in the eye of the international community. Before his new assignment, Amba was Commissioner of Police, in charge of counter-terrorism in Abuja. He succeeds Mr. Ahmed Bello, who has retired from the Police Force. Amba, was at a time the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of Anti-Bomb unit, Explosive Ordinance Department  and Commissioner of Police superintending over Bayelsa state. Addressing men and officers of the Command on Wednesday, Amba said  he was deployed to Ekiti to carry out the transformation agenda  of the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris and vowed that the task would be accomplished. Amba told policemen to embrace professionalism by respecting the rights of the members of the public as being preached by the present IGP. “Under my watch, the police will work within the ambit of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We are going to deploy community policing strategy to reduce crimes in the state and this we are going to achieve with honesty, professionalism, transparency and through dedication to duties. “I therefore seek the cooperation, collaboration and partnership of the members of the public by giving us useful and timely information to enable this command rid Ekiti of all forms of criminality . “Our intention is to achieve the task of making Ekiti crime-free , so as to create enabling environment  for business and economic activities to thrive . “We are also going to operate an open door policy to all members of the public regardless of  religion , ethnicity or political affiliations. Everyone shall be equal and given the same attention in the interest of peace”, he stated.