Mohammed Abubakar Adamu was appointed Inspector General of Police and was immediately decorated by President Mohammadu Buhari on Tuesday, but only few Nigerians have a knowledge of who he was before yesterday. We have compiled few things you should know about the new police chief. They are below: 1. Adumu was given birth to on 17th Sept 1961 in Lafia, Nasarawa State. 2. He is from Nasarawa State. 3. The new IGP is married. 4. Adamu was an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) before his appointment. 5. He was also the Directing Staff, National Institute for Policy & Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru-Jos before his current appointment. 6. Between 2016 — 2017, he was the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in Benin City, Edo State and was responsible for the overall management & operations of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) Zone 5, comprising Bayelsa, Delta and Edo State Police Commands. 7. He had been a Commissioner of Police in Enugu and a Deputy Commissioner of Police in Ekiti and Kaduna States. 8. IGP Adamu was the Vice Principal & Geography Tutor at Government Day Secondary School, Gunduma, Keffi, Plateau State, but presently in Nasarawa State between 1984 — 1986. 9. In 1986, he joined the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police and trained at the Police College, Ikeja, Lagos State. 10. He was Seconded from the NPF to the INTERPOL General Secretariat, where he worked as “Specialised Officer” on Economic & Financial Crimes in the Economic and Financial Crime Sub-Directorate between 1997 and 2002. After holding several positions at INTERPOL, he was elected as INTERPOL’s Vice President responsible for Africa at its meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam. 11. IGP Adamu, in the course of his career in the Nigeria Police Force, had carried out several important criminal investigations for Nigeria in the United Kingdom, United States of America, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Taiwan, The Netherlands, and several West African countries. 12. He studied Geography at the Ahmadu Bello University between 1980 and 1983 and later got his MSc from the University of Portsmouth, England from 2009 to 2010. 13. In 2018, he was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Degree in International Relations by Godfrey Okoye University, Enugu, Enugu State. 14. He has attended several professional courses within and outside Nigeria, including the Senior Executive Course 38 at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS) in Kuru-Jos, Plateau State, and earned the qualification of Member of National Institute (mni). 15. The IGP’s hobies include Socialising and playing Squash and Badminton. Adamu takes over as new police boss Gwoza: Anxiety as wives of missing cops get restless dreams What I'll do as new IGP - Adamu