The Federal Government, yesterday, projected a 10 percent growth in the Nigerian maritime industry. The Director General (DG) of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, also said that the sector was able to achieve about 90 percent of its projection in 2018. This was contained in the 2019/2020 maritime forecast unveiled by NIMASA in Lagos. The forecast is the second in the series tagged ‘Harnessing the Maritime and Shipping Sector for Sustainable Growth’. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Dr. Peterside said this year’s forecast would be addressing how emerging trends in the global maritime industry would affect the Nigerian maritime sector as well as domestic factors that would influence the sector. He said the maritime industry held a lot of promise for Nigeria. “The maritime sector has the potential of contributing at least 10% of Nigeria’s GDP in no distant future, as Nigeria has the biggest market in Africa; and generates about 65-67% of cargo throughput in West Africa, and 65% of all cargo heading for these regions will most likely end up in the Nigerian market,” he said. According to the forecast, the outlook for the economy in 2019 reflected on the global side, concerns about a substantial global economic growth slowdown, likely higher US interest rates, a stronger dollar and volatile oil prices, possibly averaging below US$60pb, and domestically, the impact of sentiments surrounding the 2019 general elections and post-electoral transition. Earlier in his welcome address, the minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, emphasised the importance of shipping in poverty alleviation and wealth creation. Amaechi, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Cabotage and Shipping Development in the ministry, Mrs. Gloria Adie-Ayabie, informed stakeholders that the Federal Government had initiated reforms to facilitate the development of the Blue Economy, saying that involved the enactment of laws and domestication of relevant international instruments. Maritime sector catalyst for Nigeria’s industrialisation – NIMASA 2019 budget: NIMASA to redouble effort at repositioning maritime sector Nigeria to showcase maritime capabilities in Norway