Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senatorial Candidate for Lagos West, Gbadegbo Rhodes-Vivour has accused the incumbent Senator of abandoning the constituency to pursue gubernatorial ambition in Ogun State. He spoke with Daily Trust in Lagos during his ongoing door-to-door campaign in Ikeja at the weekend, saying if elected, he would be accessible to the people to address the major problems being faced by the constituents. Daily Trust reports that the incumbent Senator representing the constituency, Olamilekan Adeola, who is contesting for second term under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was a governorship aspirant of Ogun State until recently. But the PDP candidate insists the Senator had abdicated his primary responsibility and abandoned the people by focusing on the governorship aspiration when there are more pressing issues affecting the lives of the constituents to tend to. For instance, he said the congestion in Apapa port had created confusion in the state without the Senator making a case for them. He said, “Lagos West currently has a representative that has abandoned them. He has gone to aspire to be governor in Ogun State. We have a situation where Badagry-Express road is in complete mess; we have Apapa-Oshodi Highway in mess. “We have a situation where all the ports are creating confusion and there is a lot of backlog of traffic all over Ajeromi, Oshodi-Isolo, going all the way to Amuwo. These are major issues and the healthcare system is in a mess but the representative is not accessible to his followers. “And what I am bringing on the table is accessibility to my constituents, we will ensure that the Lagos-Badagry is repaired and it is appropriated for and we are also going to make sure that the ports around Nigeria are refurbished so that traffic can go away from Lagos to other parts of the country and we don’t have to deal with so much traffic on our roads and live in bad conditions in Lagos”. 2019: Bankole, Odebiyi, Adebutu, others jostle to replace Amosun Mark, Bankole, Yarima, Goje, Saraki, Sheriff: Will they make it today? Lagos guber and the likely runners