The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar, has said his party will do all it takes to stop the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from rigging the February 2019 presidential election. Speaking on Saturday at his campaign ground in Polo Field, Jos in Plateau State, Atiku said the APC has already settled for rigging the election and that is why they are not campaigning across the country as the PDP is doing because they know they will surely lose the election. He said the PDP will resolve all the violence and crises on the Plateau if elected, adding that the Plateau people should also elect its gubernatorial candidate, Senator Jeremiah T. Useni, to consolidate on the party’s mandate to end the sufferings of the people and the insecurity challenge in the land. APC, according to Atiku, has created mass unemployment due to its unfavourable economic policies, saying that the PDP will rectify all the havoc the APC has caused and provide thousands of jobs if elected.  In his remarks, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, said the APC has already resulted to intimidation of the clampdown of the National Assembly and the judiciary in their attempt to rig and manipulate the election at all cost. He stressed that the ordeal/arrest of Senator Dino Melaye is one of the attempts to silence them, and thereafter demanded in a loud voice: ‘free Dino Melaye’. Also speaking, the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said they won’t tolerate violence in 2019, saying no one has monopoly of violence. He called on the people to resist any form of electoral manipulation, pointing out that the masses at the campaign ground were not there because of any financial inducement but because they were tired of the status quo in the nation and on the Plateau. Highlight of the occasion involved some members of the APC who decamped to the PDP. Among them are Edward Pwajok, member representing Jos South/Jos East federal constituency, among others. Meanwhile, Yahaya Kwande, an Atiku associate and friend, said Nigerians should support Atiku in his Presidency bid because he is very qualified. Kwande was a staunch APC stalwart until recently when he announced his retirement from partisan politics. Plateau PDP accuses APC of plot to disrupt Atiku rally How Atiku emerged as Buhari’s main challenger 2019: Atiku kicks as The Economist tips Buhari for victory