Three days after the demise of the 16th Emir of Lafia, Alhaji Isa Mustapha Agwai I, seven princes have been shortlisted to be screened for the throne. According to a source in the palace, the major contenders out of the about 47 princes who are vying to be Emirs are: The source added that there are about 40 people who are willing to submit their request to the Lafia Kingmakers. Two ruling houses have been gazetted for Lafia by the Nasarawa State Government, they are the Ari and the Dall. While the other claimants to ruling houses not gazetted by the Nasarawa State are: Umar Sanda, Musa Danjaji, Lamino and Musa Gana. The selection for the new Emir of Lafia is done by the five king makers, they are Makongiji, Salanke, Moyi, Sarkin Fada and the Chief Imam. The five kingmakers are expected to seat and scrutinize the name of the contenders for submission to the State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs for onward submission the State Governor and the State Council of Chiefs for approval and ratification. However, when Daily Trust sought for the names of those who are vying for the throne from the senior kingmaker, Makungiji, he declined comment. However, Daily Trust observed that immediately after the three days prayer, the Emirs n Chief of Nasarawa including Emirs of Kazaure from Jigawa State, Emir of Dass from Bauchi State, Wamban Kano, among other Emirs and Chiefs invited the children of the late Emir to an inner chamber of the palace for a closed door meeting that lasted hours. In the evening, youths converged on the palace celebrating that one of the son’s of the late Emir has been selected by the kingmakers. But a source in the palace said the kingmakers have not sat to select any of the contenders. Another source in the state ministry for chieftaincy affairs said no one has been forwarded to them while a source in government house said they have not received any name from the ministry for chieftaincy affairs or from the secretary to the state government. Lafia emir’s deputy dies 10 things you should know about late Emir of Lafia UPDATED: Emir of Lafia, Agwai dies at 83