Nigeria’s delegation to the 2019 edition of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland made a strong case for the country’s economic priorities within the development policy framework of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). The delegation was led by Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, Minister for Budget and National Planning and Dr. Okechukwu Enyinna Enelamah, Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment. The ministers engaged with government representatives from other regions, business leaders and multinational economic operators, representing sectors that are principal drivers of economic growth. The engagements were within the framework of the government for economic, trade and investment reform priorities to enhance trade flows and attract FDI for economic modernisation, growth and job creation. Senator Udoma, who participated in the session on shaping a New Architecture on the Global Economy, also participated at the African Ministers of Finance and Economic Development on Africa’s Growth Agenda, during which ministers took stock of economic issues and explored ways of deepening intra-African growth. Minister Udoma held a number of bilateral meetings, including that with Mr Ivo Menzinger, MD of Swiss Re Management Limited. At the Ministerial Meeting on Electronic Commerce, participating ministers confirmed their intention to commence negotiations on trade-related aspects of e-commerce.  At the meeting, 76 ministers, including Nigeria, representing the leading economies in the global economy, accounting for 90 per cent of world trade, adopted a joint statement on e-commerce. He noted that, “the global economy is undergoing a fast-paced technological revolution, characterised by complex challenges and significant opportunities. All shall be affected.  Therefore, e-commerce negotiations must be constructive, pragmatic and provide benefits for developing countries like Nigeria. At the Annual Meeting of WTO Ministers, Enelamah underscored the urgent necessity for WTO reform to ensure its relevance for the 21st Century and for development to be more sharply mainstreamed into its work. In their various coordinated engagements, the ministers assured global leaders and representatives of industry that the upcoming elections in Nigeria would be transparent, fair, open to observers and respectful for the rule of law. A central and repeated message in their meetings with investors was: “Give us your bold plans to scale-up your business and job creation and the FGN shall provide you with support and incentives.” Nigeria partners ILO on capacity building FG to release N350bn for 2017 capital votes — Adeosun ‘Nigeria to benefit from Netherland’s 700 m-euros Growth Fund’