Election period is usually a booming moment for airline operators. For those in the business of charter operation, elections come with rainy days as the demand is always an all-time high. Therefore, as the 2019 elections are less than a month and politicians continue to tour the country to beg for votes, it is expected that more private jets would be hired by high-ranking politicians. Depending on the capacity of aircraft, charter operators charge an average of $6,000 per hour. Many people travelling in group may prefer to charter aircraft for ease of movement, more so that the scheduled flights may not be available in their destination. It was gathered that following increasing electioneering activities, private jet and charter operation has increased from about 90 to over 150 as the demand for the premium services rose. But in recent times, there have been concerns over unauthorised chartered aircraft operation by some aircraft owners who allegedly took advantage of the electioneering to deploy their aircraft for brisk businesses. This prompted the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to raise an alarm and threaten to wield the big stick on unauthorised permit holders forthwith. The concern raised by the NCAA, according to experts, bothers on safety as aviation globally places premium on safety. It is also a highly regulated terrain to ensure that the operators do not cut corners in the line of business. The NCAA, apart from performing oversight functions on the airlines, also gives license to operators to carry out any form of airline services like the scheduled commercial flights, charter services, helicopter services, among others. But sources close to the NCAA said that in recent times, there had been a flagrant breach of regulations by some aircraft owners who carry out charter operations without the agency’s authorisation. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that while the Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) is the basic requirement for commercial operations, operators who wish to carry out charter services are also expected to get Air Transport Licence (ATL) and Airline Operating Permit (AOP) to be qualified to carry out charter operations. These are the certificates in the possession of operators who are in the business of commercial and charter air transportation services. Some of the major domestic carriers like Air Peace, Overland, Arik, have also incorporated charter services into their operation to complement the existing charter companies like ExecuJet, EAN, among others. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs) 2015 in Part 18.2.3.1, warned against hire and reward services without obtaining relevant approvals. “No person shall use any aircraft in Nigeria for hire and reward in public transport category to provide nonscheduled or charter air service unless such a person holds an ATL or Airline Operating Permit issued by the Authority,” the regulation stated. The general manager, public relations of the NCAA, Mr. Sam Adurogboye said, “Consequently, the general public is hereby reminded that holders of Air Transport Licence and Airline Operating Permit with valid AOC are the only authorised operators to carry out charter operations,” he said. A source in the NCAA said, “Already, we are getting complaints from registered charter operators that some aircraft owners are using their aircraft for hire and reward without obtaining the relevant approvals.” Also, an operator in the charter segment who spoke on condition of anonymity, added that it would kill businesses if they kept quiet and allow unauthorised aircraft owners to carry out hire and reward services. “We have obtained the ATL and AOP and they have not. Don’t forget that we have paid to obtain these certificates. So it would be unjust to allow those without these approvals to operate reward and hire,” he said. This was a similar scenario sometime last year when some helicopter operators accused the air wing of the Nigeria police of using their choppers to do reward and hire. However, this allegation was dismissed by the Force Headquarters. But observers say it is a welcome development that the NCAA had come out to warn against such operations for the purpose of sensitising members of the public. The agency spokesman said any operator caught engaging in such unauthorised services would have its Air Operator Certificate suspended or revoked. Adurogboye said this was in line with the NCAA statutory responsibilities of safeguarding the interest of the general public and that of the investors in the aviation sector. The authority warned that any member of the public transacting business with any unauthorised operators would be doing so at a high risk as such operations may not have valid insurance cover. “The NCAA will continue to ensure strict compliance to safety regulations as violations will be viewed seriously,” he added. But Group Captain John Ojikutu (retd) challenged the NCAA to name violators among the holders of AOC. “What is wrong if the NCAA publishes the names of the authorised and non- authorised operators? What is wrong if the NCAA publishes the names of violators? To me, there seems to be some manner of cover-ups for some violators of regulations,” he said. He noted that private aircraft operators might want to take advantage of electioneering to embark on “hire and reward” operations to make quick money. “Moreover, electioneering campaigns are getting to high level and chartered flights are expected to increase in number, possibly higher than they had been in the last two years, and so should be chartered service charges due to the NCAA. “To me, there seems to be some manner of cover-ups for some violators of regulations. Before the NCAA came up with the warning, some operators must have violated the regulations and they are most likely to be amongst the sacred cows. ‘Let’s make some noise before we get caught up in the cover ups.’ “There are many private aircraft owned by some powerful Nigerians, some of them have powerful political office holders behind them. Most of them have been known recently not to have been paying for landing and parking charges due to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and possibly five per cent chartered service charges due to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA),” he said. Concerns over unauthorised charter aircraft operations As private jets owners defy tight rules As FG begins clampdown on illegal private jet operators