A cross section of Nigerians in Europe have endorsed the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari . They stated this against the backdrop of continuity in governance in telephone interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Bern. They unanimously stressed the need for a continuation in the fight against corruption which had been one of the main focus of the Buhari-led administration. Mr Kehinde Jaiyesimi , a London based political analyst, said that the current anti-graft campaign could be relegated if another party was elected into power. “Buhari has kept his campaign promise of purging the nation of corruption and corrupt practices. “He has achieved so much in recovering stolen assets and strengthening anti- corruption agencies as well as institutional framework to curb corruption. “I dare to say no administration has achieved this much in four years. “To this end it is in the interest of the nation to re-elect him so he can continue with repositioning Nigeria for greatness,’’ Jaiyesimi said. Similarly, Dr John Dole of the Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation ( NIDO) France, said that for the purpose of development and human security, Buhari should be re-elected. According to Dole, the All Progressives Congress ( APC) has “left no stone unturned” in its campaign promise of change. “All sectors of the economy have been positively impacted. “In comparison to past administrations, APC has recorded high in guaranteeing human and food security. “Even though Boko Haram is not completely technically defeated, the group is no longer in control of territories the way it used to. In the same vein, Mrs Esther Omorodion, a member of the Europe-based African Women for Development group urged Nigerians to vote for integrity. Omorodion who is based in Italy opined that Buhari’s administration had placed Nigeria high in the comity of nations owing to its zero tolerance for corruption. She also said that the APC had delivered a lot on democracy gains within three and half years- in spite of the economic challenges it inherited. “ We have to collectively determine our faith as a wrong decision would take us backward. “Therefore, let us turn out en mass and vote for progress. We need to elect the right candidates into office, people who will deliver on their mandate. NAN reports that some Nigerians in diaspora have indicated interest to return home to vote and participate as observers in the forthcoming general elections. (NAN) opinions p55 The anti-graft war must succeed Curbing corruption and  indiscipline in the polity