The 1 Division Nigerian Army Headquarters, Kaduna on Tuesday flagged off Exercise Egwu Eke III also known as Exercise Python Dance in English language. This it said was in its bid to combat banditry, kidnapping activities and other crimes that have been bedevilling the country. Speaking at the flag-off ceremony at the headquarters 1 Division Step-up in Rigasa, Igabi local government area of the state, the General Officer Commanding of the Division, Major General Mohammed Mohammed assured Nigerians that law and order will be maintained during the forthcoming 2019 general elections. Mohammed who said Exercise EGWU EKE III is significant because it will be the first time the exercise will be conducted simultaneously across the country. He said: “Furthermore, it is also meant to ensure that law and order is maintained as we approach the forthcoming 2019 general elections. “To this end, the Division has put in place necessary security measures to ensure that these dissident groups are denied freedom of actions to carry out their nefarious activities and to also ensure a hitch free 2019 general election. “As we are all aware, the activities of dissident groups in recent times have disrupted the economic activities in most parts of the country. “1 Division is not unaware of plans by some of these groups to disrupt the forthcoming 2019 General Elections; hence, Exercise EGWU EKE III will give the Division the necessary platform to forestall the activities of these unscrupulous elements.” He noted that the Division is engaged in several operations such as Karamin Goro, Idon Raini, Sharan Daji and Whirl Punch essentially to clear criminal elements in its area of responsibility. He added: “I want to also sincerely appreciate the efforts of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai in his untiring attention and support to 1 Division which has continued to enable us to discharge our constitutional responsibilities.” Also speaking, the governor of Kaduna state, Nasiru El-Rufa’i who was represent by his security adviser, AIG Murtala Abbas (rtd) said the sustained military offensive against Boko Haram by the Armed Forces in synergy with other security agencies has greatly degraded their capabilities, which has compelled them to relocate to remote areas as their hideouts to plan and commit various crimes. He further explained that as the general elections draws near, the need for security agencies to be on top of their game against criminal groups in the state and country at large has become more expedient. He implored the military to remain focus, determined and build on successes of previous operations and exercises, while urging them to remain apolitical, steadfast and professional in the discharge of their roles. Army launches Egwu Eke III to checkmate insecurity before 2019 polls ‘Operation Python Dance will combat arms stockpiling’ 'Python now to dance nationwide'