The acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, yesterday inaugurated members of the election petitions tribunal with a charge to be guided by the fear of God in the performance of their duties. Speaking during the inauguration which held at the Supreme Court complex, the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) charged the 250 tribunal members to know that they are accountable to God, under the oath they took. The acting CJN, who replaced Justice Walter Onnoghen on Friday, said, “as you lordships take the oath of office as chairmen and members of the Election Petition Tribunals, let me remind you that this oath is a solemn appeal to Almighty God. “Therefore, it is God Almighty that you will be ultimately responsible to. It is from this oath that your duties and responsibilities as chairmen and members of the Election Petition Tribunals in your various places of assignment spring forth and has a binding effect. “This is an ethical undertaking to justice as well as upholding the rule of law in our courts. “As such, I implore you to discharge your onerous duty diligently and with the fear of God Almighty. The judiciary is in trying times, and you must stand to protect and uphold the integrity of this arm of government. “I therefore congratulate you on this appointment and I urge you to see this assignment as a call to greater service to your nation. I encourage you to uphold and enhance the honour and standing of the judiciary and I pray that the Almighty Allah will bestow upon you strength, good health and wisdom in the performance of your duties,” he said. It was observed that unlike the custom where justices of the Supreme Court attend such functions with the CJN, only one of the Supreme Court justices, Justice Sidi Dauda Bage, joined the Acting CJN, Justice Mohammed on the apex court’s podium. The absence of the justices may not be unconnected with the crisis at the highest echelon of the nation’s judiciary following the corruption charges against the embattled CJN Walter Onnoghen over his alleged non-declaration of assets and his subsequent suspension by President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday. BREAKING: Election tribunals: Acting CJN Mohammed inaugurates members Onnoghen: Supreme Court justices shun inauguration of elections tribunals Election tribunals: Bulkachuwa cautions judges against corruption