Gunmen suspected to be abductors have killed the All Progressives Congress (APC) chairman of Dobi ward in Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Husaini Sarki Kaida. Our reporter learnt that the gunmen also kidnapped the deceased 15-year – old daughter identified as Saude. A member of the deceased family, Ibrahim Sarki, said the incident happened around 1:20 a:m on Saturday, at the deceased resident in Kaida village in the  area council. He said the gunmen who were many came went to the deceased house with sophisticated weapons; they knocked on the door and when he opened, they shot and killed him. Sarki added that after killing the politician, the assailants whisked away his 15 year – old daughter. “The sound of gun shot attracted my attention and before we realised what was happening, we saw the lifeless body of the APC ward chairman lying on the floor. They shot him on the chest and he died instantly,” he said. He said the remains of the APC ward chairman had been buried at according to Islamic rites, even as he said the family were yet to establish contact with the kidnappers of the 15 year-old girl. It will be recalled that the deceased was early last year abducted by gunmen at his Kaida village, in which N2 million ransom was paid before he was set free. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manza, said he was not aware of the incident but said he would contact the Gwagwalada police division and get back to our reporter. Meanwhile, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, has expressed shock and sadness over the brutal assassination of the APC ward chairman. Mustapha, in a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Usman Baba Lado, said the chairman said the council sympathised with the family and the entire good people of council over the gruesome murder of the deceased. He condemned the manner in which the deceased was killed, describing it as an act of wickedness, while calling on security agents to ensure those behind the killing were brought to book without delay.  Gunmen kidnap APC ward chairman in Gwagwalada Kidnapped Gwagwalada APC ward chair released Gunmen kill APC ward chairman in Rivers