21 bandits have been killed and   17 captured alive by Troops of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD) conducting operations in Zamfara and Katsina States have killed 21 bandits between January 22 and 29, this year. Eleven civilians and one vigilante were also said to have been killed by bandits. The troops also destroyed bandits’ camps and rescued 89 kidnapped victims, Acting Force Information Officer Operation Sharan Daji, Major Clement Abiade, disclosed this yesterday while giving an update on OPSD’s activities  within the period. He added that two bandits’ informants Musa Amadu and Auwalu Mutairu, were arrested at Danfumi village in Birnin Magaji and that they were currently assisting troops with intelligence. He stated: “On 22 January 2019, troops on clearance operation in Gando Forest came into contact with a large gang of bandits armed with sophisticated firearms and Rocket Propelled Grenades leading to fierce gun battles which lasted several hours. The bandits were forced to abandon their camps due to superior firepower during these encounters. “Troops also made contact with bandits operating in Shinkafi, Birnin Magaji and some isolated villages in Maru LGA of Zamfara State. Furthermore, troops of OPSD operating in Katsina State made contact with bandits at different locations around Safana, Runka, Kukan Sama between 25 – 28 January 2019. “Items recovered from the bandits over the period, he said, included one Single Barrel gun, two locally made pistols,20 Cartridges of Double barrel bullets,60 Rounds of 7.62mm special,one  AK 47 Magazine containing18 Rounds of 7.62mm special, two  dane guns, four  motorcycles and large quantity of Indian hemp and illicit drugs.” According to him, out of 89 freed kidnapped victims, 55 of them were held captives in Bukkuyum LGA in Zamfara State. “The freed captives who were mostly from local communities in Zamfara State were debriefed and reunited with their families,” he stated. He explained that six persons were kidnapped at Asoula village in Tsafe LGA and not in Birnin Magaji as reported by some media houses. Troops kill 21 bandits, rescue 89 kidnapped victims Military kills 58 bandits, loses 2 troops in Zamfara Troops kill 58 bandits, free 75 kidnapped persons in Zamfara