CEC Africa Investments Limited (CECA), a major shareholder of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has blamed its partner, Xerxes Global Investment Limited, for breaching a $41 million funding agreement for acquiring the DisCo in 2013. However, Chairman of Xerxes Limited, Amb. Shehu Malami, said CECA ought to pay him for his goodwill and name which facilitated the sale of AEDC to KANN Utility Company Limited, their consortium. But CECA, in the statement, dismissed the claim saying goodwill could not have bought the DisCo, especially with the initial payment of $41m to the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). “Till date, Xerxes has not shown any capacity to repay its part of that obligation to CECA, six years after the privatisation. Yet it wants to claim major ownership of AEDC; despite having failed to fulfil any financial obligation and leaving the business risk on CECA,” said Engr. Emmanuel Katepa, managing director of CECA. Engr. Katepa further challenged Malami and Xerxes to tell the public if it brought any fund in the acquisition of AEDC. “Ambassador Shehu Malami failed to address the central issue which remains that he and his organisation are claiming shares for which they have failed to pay and show no capacity to pay. “In recognition of its failure to pay its share of the acquisition cost in 2013, Xerxes even pledged to CECA, as security, half of its equity share in KANN.  At the time, the arrangement was expected to be cured within 120 days, during which time Xerxes was to source its contribution and pay its share. As we speak, Malami has not paid, yet is denying us the right to that majority equity stake,” Katepa noted. CECA insisted that having goodwill does not translate to financing the acquisition of the power utility firm, while Malami said CECA was not interested in being repaid but rather to illegally dispossess its local partners. ‘Our partners defaulted in $41m Abuja DisCo's funding’ 'Xerxes can’t pay $41m shares in AEDC acquisition 6yrs after' AEDC investors clash over CECA’s $164m privatization funding