The House of Representatives yesterday called for the upgrade of navigational aids and facilities at airports nationwide to improve safe flight operations. The House Committee on Aviation also tasked the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to digitize every segment of its operations to conform to global best practices. Chairman of the committee, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, spoke at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) when members of the committee paid an oversight visit to NAMA, the agency in charge of airspace communication, navigation and surveillance. The committee also toured several facilities of NAMA including the Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria (TRACON) site and the control tower, among others. Nnaji who addressed newsmen after the inspection, tasked NAMA to upgrade all its facilities and transit totally from manual operations. He said the upgrade should not be limited only to the major airports in Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt, adding that other airports should also benefit from the upgrade to ensure safe flight operations nationwide. The chairman pledged that the committee would support NAMA in terms of budgetary allocation to meet its funding challenges, noting that the committee was working with NAMA on how to fund the agency to solve its humongous infrastructural challenges. “We saw also the need for upgrade which the MD told us he is going to do. We noticed the manual operation at TRACON and also when we went to the Control Tower, we also saw the digital aspect of it. “We believe that with government’s support, those facilities need to be upgraded. Other airports in Nigeria also need to follow suit, not just Lagos or Abuja, Kano or Port Harcourt,” he said. Managing Director of NAMA Capt. Fola Akinkuotu tasked the committee to fast-track the passage of the NAMA Amendment Bill which President Muhammadu Buhari recently sent to the National Assembly. He said the agency requires more funding to be able to “catch up” with all the areas, adding, “the chairman has promised to help us get more funding in the budget.” He said the agency plans to upgrade the TRACON system which requires a lot of money, adding, “there is no point in NAMA’s life where there should be a stagnation, where we would say we have done it all. Technology is going to change.” New landing instrument for Abuja, Lagos airports takes off January Reps cautions Aviation minister over planned US $461m loan Shettima pleads for re-opening of Maiduguri Airport