The Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has drawn the federal government’s attention to the need for ships on Lagos, Port-Harcourt and Onne anchorages, waiting to berth, to be diverted to other ports. It said that it observed that many ships are presently waiting to berth in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Onne, thereby attracting trucks and other heavy duty vehicles to the areas. A statement by ANLCA national president, Iju Tony Nwabunnike, disclosed that the development has hampered free movement of cargo laden trucks, and impacted adversely on the ongoing port access road construction. He said in addition, it has also caused loss of revenue to government. According to him, the situation has capacity to create unemployment and slow national economic growth. “We hereby call on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct that ships waiting on Lagos and Port Harcourt anchorages be diverted within a period of three months to ports in Warri, Delta State and Calabar, Cross River State “Nigeria bound cargoes are presently being diverted to Duala Port in Cameroun due to the long waiting periods and cargo owners’ desire for quick turnaround time for vessels. “Shippers and cargo owners are very conscious about ships turnaround time and will likely embrace opportunities for quicker discharge of cargoes. “This diversion, in ANLCA’s opinion, will not only support the government’s Ease of Doing Business objective but will also reduce the number of trucks on some port access roads and allow speedy execution of the ongoing construction along the corridor. “It will also help in averting avoidable congestion with adverse effects in Lagos and Port Harcourt ports,” he added. He said the action requires some urgency before another rainy season sets in. “It will slow down construction work and will lead to massive job losses if not approved and implemented. “It will also make for even distribution of maritime trade among cities where ports are domiciled while opening the economy to fresh business opportunities,” he said How govt can tackle traffic jams at sea ports – Comet Group CEO Nigerian ports undergo critical reforms to boost operations, trade Prompt turnaround time, security of ships our main goal –NPA MD