A member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from Eke Ward of Enugu State, Mr Osita Okechukwu, says he was never suspended by the party since the National Working Committee (NWC) has no power to discipline members. Okechukwu, The APC NWC had on Monday lifted the suspension on Mr Okechukwu, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Rochas Okorocha, and Pastor Usani Uguru Usani. The APC chieftain, in a statement issued yesterday, said the purported suspension was a “big fake news.” He said the decision to speak out was necessary because of “the numerous congratulations” received from members of the public who were unaware that the purported lifting of suspension on him was not real. He said it was only the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiohmole, who could suspend party members in clear breach of the constitution of the APC. The Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), however, said that he had forgiven “the drowning Comrade Oshiohmole” as a Christian over his misconduct in the 2019 APC’s primary elections, where he rigged him out in Enugu West Senatorial District. Part of the statement read, “The power to discipline party members, which is exercised subject to fair hearing, is granted only to the respective Executives Committees of the Ward, LGA, State and National, by virtue of the first paragraph of Article 21 of the APC constitution. “The NWC is not listed as one of the Executive Committees by the constitution and is therefore not bestowed with the power to discipline a party member. There is no denying the fact that suspension is one of the disciplinary measures listed under Article 21 (D) of the constitution. “The NWC is also not listed in Article 21 (B) (vi) (a) – (e) as one of the adjudicatory bodies with regard to compliant or allegation against any member of the party. Also, the powers granted to the NWC under Article 13.4 (i) – (xvii) of the APC constitution does not include power to discipline any member of the party. “From the above my brothers and sisters, friends and well wishers, my humble self and indeed His Excellencies Akeredolu, Okorocha and Amosun and Pastor Usani were never suspended by their Ward, LGA, State or National Executive Committee as envisaged by the APC’s Constitution. “Consequently, the drowning Comrade Oshiomhole instead of searching for straw to cling on should not only learn that rule of law governs our great party, but should rush home and quench the inferno he has simulated in Edo State, as charity has to begin at home.” APC pardons Akeredolu, Amosun, Okorocha, Okechukwu, Usani after 9 months APC suspends Okorocha, Amosun, others for ‘anti-party activities’ Suspension of Amosun, Okorocha will not affect our victory on March 9 election – APC