President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that all university lecturers must enrol in the Integrated Payment and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) for greater transparency in the payment of their salaries. The IPPIS enrolment has been causing faceoff between the Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), upon which ASUU had recently directed its members to boycott the exercise. But speaking yesterday at the 31st and 32nd convocation ceremony of the university of Jos, the president, who was represented by the Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro, said the quest of the government to eliminate corruption from tertiary institutions is paramount and IPPIS enrolment was one of the measures. He called on the universities authorities to continue trying their best in promoting high educational standard and employ creative avenues that will make their universities globally competitive. In his remarks, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State said the state is proud of the fact that the University of Jos stands tall in the area of ground-breaking research that has produced solutions to many of the problems of the immediate community and the nation at large. He further said, as a government they place high priority on education, particularly technical and entrepreneurial education which helps in skills development, adding that it was for that reason they are establishing new technical schools and revamping old ones because of the need to inculcate the training that is productive and not just based on certificates. Lalong said he recently received the report of the committee set up to investigate the alleged encroachment into the land belonging to the University of Jos, and that they shall secure every inch of land belonging to it that has been encroached upon and those found culpable will be made to account for their actions. Vice Chancellor of the university, Professor Sebastian Maimako, said a total number of 11,431 students graduated in the convocation ceremony. He noted that the classes of awards included Diplomas, Undergraduate Degrees, Masters Degrees and Ph.D. certificates.  Between IPPIS and ASUU’s fear IPPIS: No going back on Oct. deadline, FG tells ASUU Should ASUU give in to IPPIS demands?