This item on the last Friday of the last month in the year 2019 is a collectanea on pension and pensioners largely drawn from articles published in these pages. The purpose is to look back a bit on pension issues and how those issues affected pensioners in 2019 or earlier. One recent good news about pension and pensioners in the outgoing year is that the money saved by workers and retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) is N9.81 trillion as at two months ago (end of October, 2019). This is just a shade under N10 trillion. The money was saved by around 8.6 million workers and retirees in the public and private sectors, including the self-employed who joined the nascent voluntary micro pension plan. The money has not been kept in the vault, as a substantial part of it was lent to the federal and state governments and some private sector entities through various financial instruments. The National Pension Commission has reported earlier in the year that N6.91 trillion or 70.43 per cent of the money has been invested by the Pension Fund Administrators in Federal Government’s bonds, treasury bills, agency bonds, Sukuk bonds and green bonds. It is good that the pension fund in the country is growing steadily to the extent that so many borrowers have  found it a reliable lender. Some state governors under the auspices of the National Economic Council (NEC) that refused to pay workers’ salaries and pensions regularly, are reportedly salivating to ironically borrow money from the same pension scheme all the 36 of them refused to implement fully. One very sore point in the life of most public sector retirees is the sad fact that their access to the National Health Insurance Scheme’s basic healthcare services is automatically severed upon retirement. This negative reality needs an urgent review. The National Pension Commission, without which pensioners in Nigeria will be like orphans, should champion the restoration of access to healthcare services under the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) by retirees under its purview. This should especially apply to retirees who have contributed to the NHIS fund and their dependents. PenCom should be an activist institution despite the limitation imposed on it by the Pension Reform Act 2014, by advocating that both elected and appointed politicians should automatically enroll in the scheme on assuming office. This will expand the number of contributors, boost the pension fund and end the controversy generated by excessive severance package for them on exiting their political posts. Given the huge amount of money being contributed to the pension fund, which will become several times over the  current nearly N10 trillion in the next two decades, a Federal Ministry of Pensions may become necessary to superintend the expanding pension industry and deepen its sustainability.  Both PenCom and the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) will be its agencies. PTAD deserves commendation for reaching out to pensioners in their locations for biometrics capture, the detection and removal of over 24,000 ghost pensioners from the Federal pension payroll. The drive by PTAD to regularly pay the entitlements of staff of public corporations sold by the Federal Government is good. PTAD should consider sorting out all the pending cases of the retirees of the New Nigerian Newspapers. Nigerians commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the entitlements of the privatised Nigerian Airways workers and the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, for her timely implementation of the approval. It saved many families from penury. Two good news on pension and pensioners: the Lagos state government is paying the backlog of 2017 pensions, while Borno state has paid salaries and pensions before Christmas and new year. Without space constraint, this collectanea would have contained more items on pensions and pensioners. But it has to end here. Protests mar pension sector in 2015 page 26 Retrospect The N9trn pension assets and Kano’s gratuity payments