The Catholic Action Nigeria (CAN) and the Catholic Media Practitioners’ Association of Nigeria (CAMPAN) have expressed concerned that four months after President Muhammadu Buhari sacked the former Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, Rev. Tor Ujah, no appointment has been made to fill the existing vacuum. The Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Catholic Action Nigeria, Mr. Peter Agbontean and National President CAMPAN, Mr. Patrick Osu, said on Sunday in Abuja that the statutory functions of the Commission in organizing, coordinating and facilitating the air lifting of intending pilgrims to Holy sites across the world have been undermined. They recalled that Rev. Ujah was sacked on August 27, 2019 and Mrs. Esther Kwaghe, a Director of Administration in the commission, was directed to oversee the office pending the appointment of a substantive Executive Secretary. “This action has hindered the activities of the Commission to a point that pilgrimage has been organised in the manner it should have been for those who intend to embark on this spiritual exercise including this Christmas season. “We are having Christmas without pilgrimage for Nigerian Christians, of which, of the estimated population of 200million Nigerians, 90million are Christians, which is about 40 percent of the country’s population. Of this Christian population, about 2/3 are or Catholics or have Catholic ancestry. Making Catholics about 50million of the country’s population. “Christmas remains a Sacred Season and those who cannot go to Bethlehem of Judea, though can create their own grotto and venerate until such a time they get the support or resources to visit, would have been better off by the Grotto of Jesus in Bethlehem. Christmas is the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ, which took place in Bethlehem of Judea. This birth makes Bethlehem a unique place to be at Christmas,” they said. According to them, visiting sacred places during festive seasons is what every Christian should aspire to during this sacred season and that as Christmas is around the corner with most Christians making plans to be with friends and families without making provision for the reason for the season because they have little or no support to travel. They urged the Federal Government under President Buhari to take Christian pilgrimage seriously as visits to sacred sites will reform the population and make governance easier because pilgrims always return better people. They therefore urged President Buhari, to immediately appoint a substantive Executive Secretary for the commission to enable it perform its statutory functions.  Buhari sacks Christian Pilgrim commission boss Buhari sacks Christian pilgrim commission boss NCPC flag off Christian pilgrimage in Gombe