Dasuki was first arraigned on September 1, 2015 on allegations of illegal possession of firearms. He was granted bail by Justice Adeniyi Ademola of the Federal High Court in Abuja on same day on self-recognition, but was re-arrested shortly after his release. The judge on November 3 granted him bail for medical treatment but which was not obeyed. Dasuki was later charged in other courts over alleged money laundering to the tune of $2.1 billion meant for arms purchase. He was first charged before Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf and Justice Peter Affen all of the FCT High Court and Justice Ahmed Ramat Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Dasuki was on December 15 arraigned on 22-count charges bordering on misappropriation of funds to the tune of N35bn. Those charged with him are: Attahiru Bafarawa, a former governor of Sokoto State and his son, Sagir Bafarawa; Bashir Yuguda, a former Minister of Finance; ‎and Dalhatu Investment Ltd, a company owned by Sagir. Justice Affen granted him and co-defendants bail in the sum of N250m. However, Dasuki was same day arraigned before Justice Baba-Yusuf on 19-count charges of misappropriation of arms funds. He was granted bail on December 18, 2015 in the sum of N250m but the federal government failed to release him. And following the disobedience of court orders for his release, Dasuki approached the ECOWAS Community Court of Justice for the enforcement of his fundamental rights. The regional court on October 4, 2016 awarded him the sum of N15m against the federal government and ordered his release but the directive was not respected. Back to the judicial process in Nigeria, Justice Mohammed on April 6, 2017, affirmed the bail conditions granted Dasuki by Justice Ademola of a sister court. Also, on May 16, 2018, Justice Baba-Yusuf affirmed his earlier order for the bail of Dasuki in the sum of N250m but freedom continued to elude him. Dasuki again filed a fundamental rights application before a Federal High Court challenging his continued detention despite several court orders for his bail. The court presided by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, on July 2, 2018, granted him bail in the sum of N200m bonds and two sureties who must be a Grade Level 16 officer at the federal level and must have property in the FCT. “Such a surety must deposit the sum of N100m each in bonds,” the judge said. However, the bail suffered the same fate as those before it as Dasuki continued to remain in DSS custody. On November 13, 2018, Dasuki staged a protest in court when he submitted a letter to the presiding judge, Justice Mohammed that he will no longer make himself available for trial following the “brazen violation” of his constitutional right to liberty. Besides, Dasuki had approached the Court of Appeal which in November reduced the conditions attached to the bail mandating him to produce a surety who must be a civil servant with the state or federal service who should be on Grade Level 16. The order was not obeyed until yesterday when AGF Malami issued a statement to the effect that the embattled retired army colonel should be allowed to go home.  Arms deal: Dasuki gets second bail, another case pending N19bn armsgate: Court Affirms Dasuki’s Bail, adjourns Trial to February 24 EFCC re-arraigns Dasuki, Bafarawa, others