The South South zonal chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC has warned the Indigenous People of Biafra to stop further attacks on sons and daughters of the region for whatsoever reason. The warning came following the attack on the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, in Spain by the “proscribed group”. Hilliard Eta, the APC National Vice Chairman, South South, in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja, said none of the six states in his zone was under Biafra’s enclaves. Eta, who described the attack as “shameful and crass display of stupidity”, added that it was the height of foolishness to be attacking Amaechi or any government official while millions of Nigerians and foreigners were eulogising and celebrating the numerous achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in the transport sector. The statement said, “Certainly, this outlawed IPOB members cannot feign ignorance of the various and visible projects executed by this administration in the transportation sector and we wonder if this is how to say ‘thank you’ to leaders in IPOB dictionary. “We are to state unequivocally that the South South geopolitical zone reject and condemn this barbaric act. “For the records, it is important to state that none of the six states of the South South geopolitical zone and its citizens are part of any IPOB or Biafra arrangement. And thus, it baffles our imagination why (Amaechi) a respected leader from Rivers state in the South South zone, or any other leader for that matter, could be a subject of attack, by these chicken-livered, faceless and ideological-confused persons. “Indeed, these miscreants have really overstepped their bounds. For the benefit of doubts, the protagonists and collaborators of the ill-conceived IPOB should know that the states of the South South zone and its law abiding citizens, were never, are never, and will never be part of Biafra! “One wonders why a prescribed organisation like IPOB could be attacking their own leaders and now extending such uncultured treatment to respected leaders from other zone of the country. “We sincerely hope that this ugly, reprehensible and indecent act will never repeat itself.”  ‘Amaechi was right to criticise Jonathan’ APC warns FG to leave Amaechi alone Ekweremadu’s attack by IPOB assault on decency — APC