In landmark rulings this Wednesday, the Supreme Court affirmed the elections of some governors whose wins at the polls in the last general elections have been in contention. The ruling by the seven-member panel led by Justice Mary Odili means the embattled governors remain in office. Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa. The panel held that the appeal of David Ombugadu and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against the March 9, 2019 victory of Sule lacked merit. Seyi Makinde of Oyo. The court, in a unanimous decision, said it found merit in the appeal of Makinde challenging the judgment of Court of Appeal on the election. David Umahi of Ebonyi. The unanimous judgement of the apex court, which was delivered by Justice Amina Adamu-Augie, dismissed the appeal challenging the election. Babajide Sanwo-olu of Lagos State. The unanimous judgement of the apex court, which was delivered by Justice Paul Galinje, dismissed the two appeals challenging the election. “A petitioner cannot add to or subtract from the provision of Section 138 of the Electoral Act. “Accordingly, this appeal lacks merit and same is dismissed by me,” Justice Galinje held. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State. The apex court dismissed the appeal filed by Adekunle Akinlade of Allied People’s Movement (APM) against the election of Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Justice Mary Odili, who delivered the unanimous judgement of the court, held that the appellants failed to discharge the burden of proof of the noncompliance with the Electoral Act as argued. Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom. The unanimous judgement of the apex court, delivered by Justice Musa Dattijo Muhammad, dismissed the appeal challenging Emmanuel’s election. Justice Muhammad held that the appeal lacked merit. Aminu Masari of Katsina. The lead judgment of the 7-man panel of the apex court, which was delivered by Justice Inyang Okoro, held that the appeal lacked merit. All members of the panel agreed with the judgment. The crux of the appeal was that Masari was not qualified to contest the election on the ground that the certificate tendered by the governor belongs to one Aminu Bello that is different from Aminu Bello Masari. Justice Okoro held that Masari satisfied the provision of the constitution. Supreme Court affirms Kaduna's El-Rufai, Nasarawa's Sule, Oyo's Makinde as governors S/Court upholds Dickson’s election BREAKING: Court affirms Sanwo-olu's election as Lagos governor