A coalition of professionals, comprising medical doctors, lawyers, social workers as well as religious scholars have conducted evaluation and needs assessment of parents of the Kano kidnapped children. Over 100 family members of the abducted children took part in the exercise over the weekend in Kano. The assessments were conducted by a team of 14 medical doctors, 13 legal practitioners, 18 psycho-social and family counsellors as well as several volunteers during which a total of 134 parents of 68 missing children were evaluated. The essence of the evaluation, according to the acting chairman of the forum, Dr Saleh Abba of the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), was to assess the state of their physical and psychological health with the view to offering them psycho-social support to relieve the trauma caused by the abduction of their children. Dr Abba said preliminary reports have indicated that almost all the parents were suffering from either psychological, social issues or both. “Some of them suffer from depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety disorder or hypertension, while four parents have died. “K9-Forum was created to provide a platform for volunteers belonging to various professionals, governmental and non-governmental organizations in close collaboration with the association of parents whose children are missing. ‘‘The Forum is to provide comprehensive intervention and sustainable strategies to address the immediate and long-term effects of the abduction of these children, their families and the society in general,” he said. He said there was a need for comprehensive evaluation of the affected parents to ascertain the state of their physical, mental and social wellbeing, proffer remedies for those with challenges and take preventive measures for others. Dr Abba commended the police and other security agents for rescuing some of the children abducted Kano,Gombe, Kebbi, Katsina and other states, calling on them to work harder and rescue the children still in captivity. He stressed the need for a comprehensive social re-integration programme for the victims and their parents. Isma’il Ibrahim Muhammad, chairman of the association of parents of abducted children in Kano, thanked the Forum, saying the assessment would help the parents. “Our appeal is that government and other concerned bodies should do more in trying to rescue our abducted children,” he pleaded. The women leader, Zainab Abdullahi Giginyu, who couldn’t control her emotion, told Chronicle amidst tears that majority of the parents were suffering hypertension and some psychological problems as a result of the abduction.  Kano 9: Medical experts volunteer to conduct psychiatric assessment of victims CELEBRATING PROF IBRAHIM AYAGI Fed Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital records 74,000 cases in 20 years