The Deputy Director General (Coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (APCCO) in 2019,  Arch. Waziri Bulama, says the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), has measures in place to avoid the imposition of its presidential candidate on the majority of party members in 2023. Bulama, who is a strong contender for the position of APC National Secretary, said this yesterday while fielding questions from journalists in Abuja. He said the party would sustain its democratic credential in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s philosophy of one man one vote ahead of the 2023 presidential primaries of the party. He stated that the President Buhari led administration had succeeded in promoting free and fair election in the country since 2015. Bulama said the victory of President Buhari this year’s election spoke volume of the fact that Nigerians appreciated the performance of the APC led administration since 2015. He said, “Our party is not one where leaders take a decision and impose. So I believe at the right time the party will sit and decide and take a decision on this matter. I am not worried really. I am very comfortable and happy with the party. I am happy with what the party is doing in managing Nigeria. “And I am also happy seeing all our colleagues doing their very best in managing ministries, agencies and departments of this country and delivering on our undertakings to make Nigeria work and work for the greater benefit of Nigerians.” While speaking on his chances of emerging the National Secretary of the APC, he said, “I am a team player and the idea that I should even aspire to National Secretary of the party was consensus amongst many stakeholders of the party that I should run. “In fact, I ran in the last convention in 2018 and I stepped down for Mai Mala. And subsequently, I was appointed into the presidential campaign council. After the presidential campaign, we had options to pick other assignments to contribute our quarter to the management of government in our country. But most of my colleagues felt that, look we should renew our aspiration to be in the party, to help our leaders, to organise and manage things in the party and administer the party in line with the expectations of members. “I am very comfortable at the moment with the endorsements I have received. Most of the stakeholders, groups, the forum of state chairmen to Buhari Support Organisation to Presidential Support Committee to National Coalition of Buhari Support Group; NCBSG and most governors and ministers have endorsed us. So, I believe the delay in taking a decision is largely because our party relies on due process and extensive consultation before taking a decision.” PDP militarisation claim usual song of losing party - Arc. Bulama The rise of a political mogul Group endorses Bulama for APC national scribe