Over a hundred Small and Medium Entrepreneurs are showcasing their products at the ongoing 4th Wuye (BoT) Market Trade fair in Abuja. One of the traders,  Mrs Schola Keghku who brought yams and cassava all the way from Makurdi, said there is patronage and she has sold yams worth 200,000 three days into the fair. She also added that there was patronage for both dry fish and tilapia fish at the fair. However, Hajiya Ruqayyatu Hussaini, who is the MD of Vivido Naturals, makers of mixed spices and herbal teas said the patronage was not very good but they are looking forward to better sales as the days go buy. “I am hoping to sell over 100 pieces of my mixed spices and green teas during this fair,” she said. Managing Director of All Purpose Shelters Limited, organisers of the fair Mrs Yemisi Suswam, said the essence of the trade fair was to create awareness for local product in Nigeria and position the Small and Medium Scale Entrepreneurs (SMEs) properly to develop from the micro level to higher level. “This year we are focusing on ensuring food security, hence, the theme is ‘Ensuring Food Security, for all.’  There are a lot of policies of government in this direction, but how do we move forward, if we do not create the ready market for our local farmer to showcase their products like rice, yams, and beans e.t.c,” she said. Acting GMD, Abuja Investment Company Limited, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Pai said the topic for this year’s trade fair is very apt.  “We want to encourage our local farmers to bring out their products so that people can patronize them,” he said. The Managing Director, Abuja Market Management Limited, AMML Abubakar Usman Faruk said 90% of money in the economy come from the informal sector. “This is a typical informal sector and this is what drives the economy of the nation, small business like this,” he said.  12th Abuja fair: Low patronage, high space rent rattle SMEs SMEs Springboard fair networks vendors, customers 26 Nigerian MSMEs showcase 40 products at China fair