National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has told Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, that he didn’t teach them how to lose elections. Oshiomhole reacted in a television programme at the weekend to comments by Governor Obaseki and his deputy, that Oshiomhole taught them all they were executing in the state including, the fight against godfatherism. He said in a statement issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary Simon Ebegbulem that he did not teach them violence that was being exhibited today in the state and losing elections because “I have always been a winner”. He said while the governor lost his ward, local government and senatorial district in the last presidential election, the deputy governor also lost polling booth in Jattu where he voted during his own governorship election in which he was standing as deputy governorship candidate. “So, if he (Shaibu) learnt from me, he should have learnt well because I never lost election in my village. “There is nobody in my village who can work against me because when I go home, I relate with them, I am an ordinary man.” “So, he is one of my very poor students, Kakhi is not a lesson and fighters must be tactful and strategic. No sensible man will fight people who vote for them. Those they are fighting now, some of them delivered 95 per cent of the votes in their units, while they lost their own areas,” he said. He said Governor Obaseki and his deputy had unleashed mayhem on APC members in Edo State, adding that “the problem is that Shaibu did not know the difference between family disagreement that can be settled through conversation and political opponents that need to be fought and defeated…. “Politics is a leveler, people who are detained by their ego can’t make it in politics. And I do not know any political party where you don’t have disagreement but as leaders all you need to do is to call them and explain yourself. If it happens they are right and you are wrong, you apologise. For me, this remains the way to go calling everybody together. Not the clapping society where you selected those who praise you to high heavens,” he added. In Edo, factions loyal to Oshiomhole and Obaseki had suspended the two leaders after passing a vote of no confidence on them at separate press conferences. Oshiomhole has been at loggerheads with Governor Obaseki over issues relating to the 2020 governorship election in the state. Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Edo 2020: Issues as fight over ticket gets messier How Oshiomhole-Obaseki feud encourages hooliganism in Edo