Jumia Nigeria has provided opportunities for more brands across the various categories on its platform to advertise their products. It would be recalled that the ratings of visits to the Jumia platform has continuously increased over the years thus providing access to more business information for existing and prospective buyers. Recent global reports on e-Commerce show that the demand for electronic transactions is greatly attracting payment facilitators from Europe and Asia who are investing in Nigerian electronic infrastructure projects. Daily, factors such as fast growing youth populations, expanding consumer power and increased smartphone penetration is strengthening online commerce and financial technology in Nigeria. The McKinsey reports put the current e-Commerce spending in Nigeria at an estimated $12 billion. By 2025, the figure is projected to reach $75 billion in revenues per annum. “We decided to open our platform starting from October. There is a huge opportunity for brands to showcase their services and products to our audience and that is why we opened our platform. The way we want the brands to look at it is to think of Jumia as a search,” said Head of Growth and Partnerships, Olusegun Martins. He added that “our platform is one of the most visited in Nigeria and Africa. We are in 12 countries of Africa, and in each country, we serve consumers everywhere. We are much more than “e-commerce”, we have hotels, flights, restaurants, classifieds portals, and many more platforms, which give us even more data and more ability to target the right audience for brands looking to reach a wider and more targeted audience”. As a means for aggregating market research, the new platforms provide opportunities for brands to build awareness, consideration, engagement and sales. The algorithm allows for users segmentation based on their shopping interest, including their geographical information. In 2018, page views on the Jumia website reached over 700 million, but now averaging over 90 million views per month. “On availability of data for research, Jumia is adapting the model of leading e-commerce platform in the US, Amazon. The clamour by customers for an advertising platform from Jumia was on the increase, hence the decision by the company to give it a trial this year,” Martins said.  Jumia thrills consumers with 5 Black Fridays in November Jumia, the foreign-owned company in Nigeria, files for IPO on the New York Stock Exchange ‘e-Commerce will account for 10% of retail sales in Africa by 2025’