A police sergeant, Lukmon Akanbi, attached to the Victoria Island police station has been dismissed for allegedly killing one Ramon Babatunde Adeniyi. The sergeant, who faced an Orderly Room trial, has also been charged with murder and conduct likely to cause a breakdown of law and order. Akanbi allegedly shot dead Adeniyi, 39, of the Campus area, Lagos Island, last Friday at about 4.20am at Eko Atlantic Victoria Island, Lagos. It was learnt that there was a fracas between the sergeant, who was on patrol at the area, and the victim, who was returning from an event. Akanbi was said to have pulled the trigger of his pistol on the unarmed civilian, which the police said fell short of professional standards on the use of firearms. Adeniyi was rushed to the Naval Dockyard Hospital, Victoria Island, where he was confirmed dead by the doctor on duty. The alleged killer was arrested and detained at the Provost Department, Command Headquarters, Ikeja. The spokesman of the Lagos State Police Command, Deputy Superintendent Bala Elkana, said Akanbi was subjected to internal disciplinary proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer on a three-count charge of “Discreditable Conduct, contrary to Paragraph E (3) First Schedule; Unlawful and Unnecessary Exercise of Authority, contrary to Paragraph Q (2); and Damage to Articles, contrary to Paragraph D (1), Police Act and Regulations, Cap 370 LFN 1990. The sergeant was found guilty of all the charges and awarded punishment of dismissal from the Nigeria Police. He has been handed over to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, for prosecution in a conventional court. Elkana said, “The Command condemns the unprofessional conduct of the dismissed Sergeant. The Commissioner of Police condoles with the family and friends of the deceased person and assured them that justice will prevail.” Police Inspector on the run, five arrested over murder Kolade Johnson: Police inspector dismissed, to be prosecuted 3 cops dismissed for extorting 350,000 cefas from Togo-based Nigerian