A royal ruling family in Iruland, Victoria Island, Lagos, the Abisogun Oniru, has rejected the nomination of Mr Hakeem Ajasa, a retired Chief Superintendent of Police and former aide-de-camp to the immediate past governor of Osun State, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, as the next Oniru of Iruland. Abisogun Oniru is opposing the selection of Ajasa as the next Oniru on their allegation he is not from any royal family in Iruland. The family insisted that the next monarch of Iruland should come from their royal family, the Abisogun Oniru. A section of the Abisogun Ruling House had last week tipped Ajasa as the next Oniru. Abisogun Oniru’s objection the nomination of Ajasa was contained in a letter to the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Department of State Security Services (DSS) and the Executive Chairman and Secretary to Iru-Victoria Island Local Council Development Area, wherein the family strongly opposed and rejected Ajasa’s nomination. The letter, titled, ‘Re: Vacancy In Oniru Chieftaincy Succession’, and dated December 9, 2019, signed by the family’s head, Alhaji Surajudeen Durosimi Abisogun Oniru (Arole), described those that tipped Ajasa as the next Oniru of Iruland as  “outsiders and strangers.” The letter reads in part, “For purposes of clarity, the Abisogun Ruling House consists of only the descendants of Omowumi Abisogun Oniru, the only blood relations to the Oniru of Iruland. The heads and accredited representatives of the Abisogun Ruling House who are authorised to represent the ruling house are as set out below: Alhaja Afusatu Kabiawu, Alhaji Surajudeen Durosimi and Alhaja Wosilatu AbdulAzeez Fatosha. “The Abisogun Ruling House hereby claims that it is our turn and entitlement to nominate a candidate to fill the vacancy in Oniru Chieftaincy created by the demise of the late Oba Idowu Abiodun. Abisogun Ruling House is entitled to the legal and equitable right to nominate a candidate of their choice to fill the vacancy in the Oniru chieftaincy/stool of Lagos without interference.” The Abisogun Oniru Ruling Family, therefore, called on the Iru-Victoria Island Local Council Development Area’s Secretary “to use his good office and step into the matter.” The family suggested that the Secretary should request the Abisogun Ruling Family to forward its authentic candidate to the appropriate office. The ruling family also appealed to the Secretary and the LCDA to deal only with the Abisogun Ruling House certified representatives. The family welcomed the option of the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) in resolving the matter amicably.  Selection of new Ipetumodu monarch followed due process - Kingmakers Oyo 2019: Political heavyweights regroup under Obasanjo’s ADC to unseat APC Aregbesola appoints former Lagos Surveyor General as traditional ruler in Osun