The abducted younger brother of the Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Awwal Ajiya, has escaped from his kidnappers where they held him hostage. City News had reported that the victim was on Tuesday morning kidnapped by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers at Anini village, between Abaji and Yangoji in Kwali Area Council on Abuja -Lokoja road. Ajiya, while speaking with our reporter at his family residence in Abaji, said he narrowly escaped from the kidnappers at their hide out on Piri mountain around 8:32 pm. He said he was able to escape after five among the six gunmen had gone to collect ransom of N2 million at a forest along Yebu -Kwaku road in Kwali Area Council. According to him, one of the gunmen who was left to guard him at their hide out under a big mountain had gone to search for drinking water from a stream, which he summoned courage and quietly untied his hands and legs and escaped. “Actually, the kidnappers were six in number and as God will have it, five out of  the six of them went to collect ransom and one of them that was guarding me later left to look for water and I quietly untied myself and escaped, ” he said. He said the kidnappers after negotiating with his family through his phone later handed his phone to him, which he said he now used the phone to communicate with his brother who sent a vehicle to convey him back home. He said he was able to locate the highway through the help of a hunter he came across inside the bush, whom he said led him to the highway near Yangoji village in Kwali area council. Ajiya, explained that prior to his abduction on Tuesday, he received a call on Monday, from some people who asked him to supply sand to a new site where construction was going on. “It was after the conversation the next day which was on Tuesday, they now asked me to meet them at Piri village, so that they will show me the site where I will supply sand, ” he said. He, however, said that it was in the process he boarded a car from Abaji on Tuesday morning and alighted at the place, in which the kidnappers directed him to follow a  bush path on which six men appeared from the bush and held him at gun point. “They brought out a cloth and tie my face while three others were carrying gun and they led me into the bush. In fact, some of them were even saying they have been looking for me for two weeks now,” he said. Abaji chairman's brother, 4 others kidnapped along Abuja-Lokoja road Abaji chairman’s brother, 4 others kidnapped Gunmen abduct Abaji vice chair, 2 others