While traveling around Nigeria as a reporter, I witnessed and vividly saw the huge contrasts co-existing in the vastness of Nigeria: waterlogged Otuoke in Bayelsa State and the hot, sahelian dryness of Daura in Katsina State. Each of the two communities produced an elected President for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. While immediate former President of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan is a Nigerian from marshy Otuoke, sitting President Muhammadu Buhari is from the arid sahelian town of Daura. There are other contrasts in Nigeria than those of the country’s natural, physical terrains. One of the sharpest contrasts sadly, exists among pensioners. The pensioners that worked for the good of Nigeria for a tenure of eight years, and those who served for 35 years. One obvious contrast is that, on taking office for a four-year tenure, every state Governor gets free food, free medical care, free luxurious accommodation, free healthcare, free means of transportation and free utilities. All paid for by the state government. In contrast, state workers’ pay for all these themselves from day one on the job until they retire. Yet most Governors are paid excessive pensions called severance package at the end of their relatively short tenures, whereas most retired civil servants who served for decades are paid inadequate pension in most states. While a former Governor is given houses in cities of his choice worth millions of Naira as part of retirement package, plus free medical services, the other pensioner who has spent 35 years toiling for the same state may end up homeless after ejection from a rented accommodation or official quarters. As the former Governor is given new high-performance vehicles at the end of tenure, the retired civil servant may be lucky to possess a hard-starting motorcycle bought with money borrowed from the workplace cooperative society twenty years earlier. The National Pension Commission (PenCom)   reported that 109,284 retired workers had quit the Contributory Pension Scheme because they do not have enough saving to arrange a meaningful programmed withdrawal, or purchase an   annuity. They were paid off a total N27.09 billion. PenCom said in the report that the retirees who were paid off did not have up to N550, 000 in their Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs). So the savings of each of these retirees cannot pay for the shortest flights chattered by a Governor or the cost of fuelling vehicles in his convoy for a private business trip masked as official activity. In contrast, a former Governor whose administration hardly pays salaries and pensions regularly or in full, was paid N360 million as gratuity, and brazenly complained that his N10 million monthly “upkeep” has been delayed for months. Another contrast in the after-tenure life of state Governors and the average civil service retirees is that, while most ex-Governors splurge in comfortable retirement, the average retired long-term civil servant lives in deprivation, old-age poverty and endless sickness, without access to free healthcare. The perks for former civilian Governors listed in a report in the Daily Trust newspaper edition of Friday, November 29, 2019, which run into billions of Naira, are unethical, filthy and should be reversed by all state Houses of Assembly, just as was done by the Zamfara State House of Assembly. Another unbelievable contrast is within the civil service. The disparity in pension between other staff, including Directors on Salary Grade Levels 16/17, and retired permanent secretaries, is so wide. In addition to their Contributory Pension Scheme savings, retired federal and state permanent secretaries who have served for 20 years and above in their respective services are paid their full salaries as pension for life, according to guidelines issued by PenCom in 2017. At the same time retired federal or state Directors live on pension less than a quarter of their last salaries. Excessive pension versus inadequate pension brings societal disequilibrium. Tactics for living on inadequate pension (6) Buhari’s 1984/85 public service intake retiring Buhari: PDP’s 16yrs unprecedented revenue, irresponsible expenditure