The governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, has said that traditional institutions remain a strong mechanism for good governance because of the reconciliatory and advisory roles they play in the society. Gov Fayemi said this at the presentation of the staff of office on Saturday to Oba James Oluwafemi Olugbesoye, the new Oluloro of Iloro-Ekiti, in Ijero local government, in a colourful ceremony full of arts and traditional displays. The governor pledged to always accord all traditional institutions the respect the respect they deserved and called on the new traditional ruler to mobilize his people for growth and development of his community. Oba Olugbesoye succeeded the last occupant of the Oluloro throne, the late Oba Michael Ayoola Arowolo, who joined his ancestors in September 2015. Gov Fayemi urged the new  monarch to “accommodate, endure, persevere, tolerate and dutifully” lead his people in a way that would  facilitate and sustain the peace and progress of his community. He explained that the selection of Olugbesoye was “smooth, hitch-free and devoid of political influence and manipulation and in line with the provisions of Ekiti State Chiefs Law, 2012 and  the tradition and customs of Iloro people.” He promised the commitment of his administration to always accord respect for traditional institutions and carry them along in ensuring peace, progress and development of the state. Oba Olugbesoye, in his acceptance speech, commended the selection process that led to his appointment and assured them that he would not take the security and welfare of his people for granted. He pledged to faithfully discharge his sacred responsibility of preserving the customs and tradition of his community. He added that he would effect reforms in palace administration to adequately respond to the needs of his people and foster harmonious relationship among them. Violence: Ekiti monarchs summon Fayemi, Fayose, others Community commends Fayemi for completing 50-year-old civic centre Fayemi asks traditional rulers to supervise projects