The Committee of e-Banking Industry Heads (CeBIH) and Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) have unveiled measures to sustain the 120 percent growth in electronic payment transactions recorded under the Payment System Vision 2020 (PSV 2020). The measures, which were unveiled at the 2019 annual retreat of CeBIH held in Abeokuta, Ogun State, include fingerprint authentication for ATM transactions, mobile phone enrolment of Biometric Verification Number (BVN), Global Standing Instruction (GSI) to curb loan defaults, increased emphasis on digital partnerships and open banking architecture. Nigeria recorded 120 percent Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) in value of electronic payment transactions under the PSV 2020 introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in 2007. In addition to reviewing development under the PSV 2020, the CeBIH 2019 retreat, themed, ‘Payment 2020plus: The Next Frontiers of Payments’,  focused on measures to sustain this growth rate beyond 2020. CeBIH Chairman Stanley Jacob, in his welcome address, explained that “the theme of the retreat was selected to determine the next wave of execution that will accelerate growth in the nation’s digital space as well as transform various areas of the economy and government.” Speaking on CeBIH’s strategic intent on driving future growth, Jacob said: “As industry practitioners, we have identified digital partnerships and open architecture as a major recipe for accelerating growth in payments,” adding that, “CeBIH will continue to focus strongly on data as the premium solid minerals for the payment sector.” In his keynote address, Deputy Managing Director of NIBSS, Mr. Niyi Ajao, highlighted measures to be introduced from next year aimed at driving growth in the electronic payment system. Represented by NIBSS Executive Director, Business Development, Mrs. Christabel Onyejekwe, Ajao said the measures include a system that allows people to use their mobile phones to enrol for BVN. He said the measure will commence this week, and is aimed at achieving 10 million BVN by 2020, in line with the vision of the CBN for 120 million BVN by 2030. 