Trouble is brewing in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State following the return of the loyalists of former Governor Ibikunle Amosun to the ruling party, which they left over the disputed gubernatorial primary in the build-up to the 2019 polls. In November last year, Amosun’s anointed successor, Adekunle Akinlade, alongside other aggrieved party leaders, defected to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), after his arch-rival, Governor Dapo Abiodun successfully picked the party’s ticket. Akinlade, backed by Amosun, contested the March 9 gubernatorial poll on the platform of APM and lost to Abiodun. However, Akinlade challenged the governor’s victory up to the Supreme Court, which he lost last week Wednesday. In another twist, Akinlade alongside the APM chieftains, on Monday announced their return to the ruling party, saying they were back to their root. The former governorship candidate, who addressed the party supporters at APM Secretariat at Leme, Abeokuta, hinted that they would return to the APC “which we toiled with fellow compatriots to build, nourish and entrench.” “It is with this reality in mind that I most sincerely call on every one of you that it is time to return home to the pre-October 2, 2018 Ogun State APC political family with a view to sustaining our core base, consolidating our gains so far, and continuing to support the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari to positively reposition our dear country,” Akinlade said. Daily Trust reports that the APM chieftains’ return to APC comes a week after the national leadership of the APC lifted Amosun’s suspension. Earlier on Monday, the Caretaker Committee of APC loyal to Governor Dapo Abiodun had raised an alarm over alleged plans by some hoodlums to attack the party secretariat located at Abiola Way in Abeokuta metropolis. Our correspondent recalls that the Derin Adebiyi-led faction of the APC loyal to Amosun and the caretaker committee have been at loggerheads over the control of the office. The Adebiyi-led executives were dissolved by the APC National Working Committee (NWC) last year with the caretaker committee inaugurated, following alleged anti-party activities of the dissolved excos. A statement signed by the spokesman of the caretaker committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, said the Adebiyi-led team had embarked on multiple litigations to challenge the dissolution, most of which “are still pending in various courts.” Ogun 2019: It is battle between APC and APM Ogun gov’ship: A race against time Inside Amosun, Oshiomhole’s endless verbal war