FCT Minister of State Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has identified agriculture as key in bridging the unemployment gap in the country. She also expressed the administration’s determination to embark on integrated and demonstration farms in the six area councils of the territory. The minister, who gave the commitment when she visited Integrated Farms Limited in collaboration with SCC Nigeria Limited in Kagoro area of Kaduna State, also affirmed that soil test will commence by January 2020 in the six area councils to ascertain the viability of the project in each of them. Aliyu noted that the proposed integrated and demonstration farms, when established would further strengthen and empower farmers, thereby bridging the unemployment gap in the nation’s capital. She expressed confidence that Abuja has a huge market to accommodate produce from such integrated farms, stressing that it will further enhance economic activities in the territory. “I came here with chairmen of the six area councils to carry out on the spot assessment of Integrated Farm in collaboration with SCC Nigeria Limited with a view to replicating same in all councils across the territory. What we have seen so far is quite encouraging and I can assure you that it is achievable. “I have no doubt in my mind that if properly executed in the FCT, it will not only bridge the unemployment gap, but further boost the economic activities of farmers. We, as an administration, will continue to strengthen and empower the youth and women in the agricultural value chain,” she assured. One of the agronomists, Mr. Kabiru Sule, who took the minister round the farm, said the farm has lifted thousands of youth out of poverty, adding that if government wants to combat unemployment and poverty, potential in the agricultural sector should be harnessed. Responding on behalf of other council chairmen, the chairman of Abaji Area Council, Hon. Abdulrahman Ajiya, commended the initiatives of the minister in the area of job creation and poverty reduction since assumption of office.  Inside Jonathan’s farm of controversy * What senior lawyers say Aliyu flags off area councils health insurance scheme Of Jonathan and Ebele Integrated Farmsinterest