The All Progressives Congress Aspirants Forum (APCAF) in Akwa Ibom State has called for the redeployment of the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Mike Igini. Speaking at a press conference yesterday in Uyo, State Coordinator of APCAF, Dr Chris Enoch, said the REC had failed to inspire confidence in the electorates. Enoch said the partial actions of the REC, his public outbursts and media war against the party had eroded the confidence and trust which Akwa Ibom electorates had in him. They accused Igini of carrying out his personal agenda contrary to the oath of the office he swore to withhold, saying that he was preferential in his treatment towards the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its stakeholders. APCAF said Igini’s post election utterances were clear demonstration of the hatred he had for the party, adding that the REC had castigated APC candidates who complained that INEC’s underhand tactics led to their failure at the elections. They alleged that INEC’s press statement that claimed Senator Godswill Akpabio sponsored thuggery during the Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District elections after the appellate court’s ruling in his (Akpabio’s) favour was designed to poison the minds of the electorates against the Senator before the re-run. “No sane institution will allow Barr. Igini and his top echelon of officials at the AKS INEC to conduct further elections in Akwa Ibom state, particularly, if any APC candiate is involved in the contest. “We, members of the APC Aspirants Forum, Akwa Ibom State Chapter, call for the immediate redeployment or possible sack of Mr Igini and his irk in the Akwa Ibom State INEC and the posting of a new and impartial Resident Electoral Commissioner and principal staff to AKS, as such would inspire confidence of the electorates preparatory to the conduct of free, fair credible and acceptable rerun elections,” he said When the REC was contacted to react to the position of the group, he neither picked phone calls nor responded to the message sent to him. However, INEC’s Public Relations Officer in Uyo, Mr Don Etukudo, said the call by the group was not new, saying they have always called for the sack of the REC. Etukudo added that he had nothing to say about their allegations. 2019 polls: Akwa Ibom APC seeks redeployment of REC Political parties accuse A/Ibom REC of partisanship INEC relocates 22 polling units from politicians’ houses in A/Ibom