The Confucius institute at the University of Lagos has held an international conference which focused on China’s role in the global community through education and commerce. The conference was organized by three major educational partners coming together to research, reflect and engage on issues affecting the international community in the 21st century. Three universities (The University of Sakskatchewan, Beijing Institute of Technology and the Confucius Institute at the University of Lagos) that held collaborative partnership were the key players in the active participation of the conference. Presenters at the conference deliberated about educational issues around the globe and mostly dwelt on the role of the Confucius institutes in the teaching of Chinese in Nigeria. At a paper presentation, it was exposed that there was dire need to promote the learning of Chinese in Africa however in recent years it has been beset with obvious challenges such as the dearth of teachers and volunteers coming to Nigeria. The conference attendees were indeed concerned about the promotion of Chinese language in Nigeria. In another presentation, it was declared that the study of Chinese would facilitate international commerce and enhance national development simultaneously. The Chinese Director at the Confucius Institute, Professor Wang Yongjing conversed with the audience about the Belt and Road Initiative and the role of Chinese language facilitating a smooth bridge for the engagement of actors at the international and domestic level. She highlighted the role of the Confucius institute at UNILAG to include the disseminating of Chinese at the primary, secondary and the tertiary levels in Nigeria. She also conferred with the audience the dynamic impact of the Belt and Road Initiative of the Chinese government, she urged all participants to grab the opportunity to learn and develop themselves in learning a new language skill. The erudite Chinese professor told the scholars the Confucius institute teachers approach of teaching Mandarin to Chinese audience. Scholars at the Conference also brought to the fora discourses around the Belt and Road Initiative. Prof Olufemi Saibu, an Economist analyst, Director of the Institute of Nigeria-China Development Studies and a distinguished scholar offered in-depth insights into how China has played a vital role in the reshaping of Africa’s development. He mentioned the access to loans and funds which had aided developmental processes in Africa. Likewise, he identified the enormous benefit the Belt and Road Initiative offers for Africa. China offers scholarships to 64 UNIZIK students Mama Nike for October 1 exhibition When culture enthusiasts celebrate Nigeria, China