The Director-General of Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Dakuku Peterside has explained why Nigeria was not elected into the council of International Maritime Organisation for the fifth time in a row. Daily Trust reports that Nigeria contested in the election that held in London last Friday for the Category C seat in the council, reserved for 20 countries not elected in categories A and B. The countries in Category C have special interests in maritime transport or navigation and they represent all major geographic areas of the world. Speaking to journalists at a press briefing in Abuja after presentation of his goodwill message at the maiden National Transport Summit organised by the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration (CIoTA), Peterside attributed Nigeria’s loss to the kind of International politics that was played during the exercise. “Yes, we lost the election by a one vote. What went wrong? The election of any country is a function of International politics. It is not a specific case of IMO. It is not a function of what the Maritime Administration of the country does or did not do. “Liberia has been in the council for a very long time. I’m sure you are aware that Liberia does not have a strong Maritime Administration. Kenya does not have a better Maritime Administration than Nigeria and I am proud to say that in Africa, Nigeria has Maritime Administration you can reckon with. “You may argue too that Kenya has the largest tonnage in Africa, meaning that they have many vessels in their registry. Most of the vessels in their registry are not owned by Liberians. “Nigeria owns the second largest tonnage which is verifiable in the continent of Africa. We are ahead of South Africa, Egypt or any other country. And so, in every area of Maritime Administration, we are ahead of, if not all the countries in Africa but most countries. “So, I don’t believe that winning election to IMO council is a function of what Maritime Administration does or not. Like I said earlier, it is a function of International Politics and there are many reasons. “Now, I can tell you and cite some examples. Qatar put herself forward to run for IMO council. When they realized that their colleagues or neighbours in their region came together and chose to vote them down, the ways they seemed not to have explained, Europe had seem to have agreed with their colleagues, they simply withdrew. “So, it was not what Qatar Maritime Administration did wrong or not. I think that partially explains the point I am trying to make that winning an election in an International Organisation is a function of International Politics and that depends on number of factors,” Peterside stated. He, however, said he was not sure whether Nigeria would contest again in 2021, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari would decide that when it is time. Bahamas, Belgium, Chile, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey were the 20 countries elected under Category C. Why Nigeria lost IMO Council election - Dakuk Again, Nigeria loses election into IMO Council Page 27 Maritime