They have never experienced such an event like that before! Fagge Community in Kano State was agog with huge excitement as residents trooped out in their dozens to catch a glimpse of the unusual event unfolding in their quiet, but not so privileged neighbourhood. Out of curiosity and excitement, some prying neighbours raced down from adjourning villages to feed their curiosity. They came in their slippers, wrappers, danshikis; children, men and women – all headed for the home of 29-year old Ummukhairi Badamasi. Soon after, the atmosphere gradually evolved into a carnival of sorts on the narrow street spotting about 30 buildings. At 10:30a.m. prompt, a brand new tricycle, which Officer Titus of LASTMA fame would have called “Limousine Bugatti”, cruised into the busy street accompanied by Globacom’s Head of Sales North West, Mr. Niyi  Anifowoshe;  Regional Manager North West 1, Mr. Yakubu Baba; District Head  and the Representative of the Galadima of Fagge, Alhaji Hassan Ahmed; Mai Unguwa of Fagge, Alhaji  Tijani Dan Wawu;  Kannywood star, Sani Danja and other dignitaries. The convoy stopped at House 146, where Ummukhairi resides with her husband and other relatives. Her husband was at work, but her sisters, mother-in-law and other in-laws came out with her to receive the August visitors who brought the glad tidings. Ummukhairi was in her elements. Restrained only by her Muslim culture that demands sobriety from her status as a housewife, she was effusive in excitement. She expressed gratitude to God and poured encomiums on the organisers of the promo, Globacom. She explained how she didn’t believe the report of the customer care officials who called her to inform her of the luck. After persistent calls from Glo,  She opted to visit Gloworld where the news was confirmed. “God bless Globacom!” she exclaimed in utter exhilaration. “Globacom has changed my life; my life will never be the same again”. The proud winner revealed that she would immediately deploy the keke for transportation business. Job has come to her for just recharging her Glo phone with N200 credit. Globacom had launched the Recharge and Win Big Promo also called My Own Don Beta promo, on the 3rd of October 2019, to empower hundreds of Nigerians with entrepreneurial facilities. According to Globacom, the promo would benefit the people by bringing new prosperity to lucky ones, who are mostly in the lower rungs of the society ladder. The first draw held at the Computer Village, Lagos October 17, 2019 where over 30 winners emerged for tricycles (Keke), a popular means of transportation for short distances in the country. On October 30, it held in Abuja to give out prizes to winners; followed by other presentations on November 6 in Ibadan and November 13 in Port Harcourt. On November 20, Globacom gave prizes to winners in Kano city. Some of those who won testified to how the facilities will shore up their businesses and income. Isa Muhammed, a power generator winner said “This is the first time I have won a prize in any promo. The generator will help me in my aluminum business.” Kate David who also won a generator said: “It is good news. I will use the generator in my shop and also at home. It will help me greatly. I have been on Glo network since 2003,” she said. Aje Angela won a grinding machine. “It will serve as another source of Income. I am a fashion designer. I finished my youth service in Kano two months ago. To Glo, I say thank you for all you do and for taking care of Nigerians,” Angela said. For Saidu Isa, the grinding mill he won would be another source of income for his family. “My family will be very excited when I take the prize to my house. Nigerians should always use Glo, they take care of the people,” he counseled. Isa Mohammed Salam, a corps member who also won a generator said:  “Thank God for Glo, I will use the generator for my Business”. Many others too said they would pass their prizes over to their more indigent relatives. Barrister Ibrahim Idris, who won a sewing machine in Kano said: “God bless Globacom abundantly. One of my brothers is a tailor; I will give the machine to him to help improve his business. My advice to Nigerians is that we should all have a Glo line, to show our appreciation to Globacom.” Okeke Kelechi Christian a corps member said: “I would say that I am over-excited. I won a grinding machine. I will give the machine to the community where I am serving; that way it will benefit them and add value to their lives.” Eze Solomon Ekene also won a generator winner. “I would keep the generator for my family use. We need it badly. I have been a Glo subscriber for over 10 years. I got a call last week from Glo that I won the generator.” The Kano leg of the promo was extraordinary as it was the first time a winner would have the prize brought to her in the house. The main prize-presentation exercise was held at the Kantin Kwari Market in Kano, the centre of commerce in the north. It was the fifth prize presentation exercise with a total of 130 prizes won by subscribers from Kano and its environs. But after that, Ummukhairi ‘s prize was taken to her in her house in Fagge the next day. Other prizes like sewing machines, grinding mills and one more keke were delivered to winners around Fagge. Globacom’s Head of Sales North West, Mr. Niyi  Anifowoshe said all a subscriber needed to do to qualify  for the prizes was to recharge with N200 only. He affirmed that the company had kept its promise by delivering the prizes won by lucky subscribers to them in the presence of Nigerians, the media and representatives of regulatory bodies such as National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC). “Globacom has not wavered from its original pledge to consistently bring innovative and seamless service delivery as well as unparallel benefits to our subscribers”, he stated. Anifowoshe said the on-going Recharge and Win BIG promo was initiated essentially to empower Nigerians to embrace entrepreneurship. Ahmadu Muhammed, Managing Director of Kantin Kwari Market Board, Kano was emotional when he said “Glo has brought benefits to Kano people. I call on Glo to continue to empower Nigerians through people-oriented projects like this type of promo.” The Ward Head of Fagge District, Hassan Ahmed, commended Glo saying, “I am very happy and would like to thank Glo.  I want Glo to continue to empower Nigerians.” As in the words of one of the Glo officials, someone will truly say, My Own Don Beta thanks to the promo. Kano, FCMB  partner on  revenue earnings Plight of Kano flood survivors worsens - Meet woman who lost 4 kids When mothers have to ride ‘keke Marwa’ to survive