Airline passengers in Ilorin, Kwara State, have decried the high cost of flight tickets on the Ilorin-Lagos, Lagos-Ilorin and Ilorin-Abuja, Abuja-Ilorin route. With as much as N55,000 as the cost of a one-way ticket on the Ilorin-Abuja route, the passengers say the fare as “damn too expensive”. Daily Trust reports that there are two airlines flying to Ilorin, the capital of Kwara State, in the North Central geopolitical zone. They are Arik Air and Overland Airways. The Ilorin international airport is considered a major gateway in the geopolitical zone serving other neighbouring states and cities within the state. Apart from serving passengers from Ilorin, the airport also connects passengers from other major towns in the state like Offa, Omu Aran, Ekiti in Kwara South as well as Baruten and Kaiama in Kwara North, among others. However, passengers have continued to moan over what they call the exorbitant fares charged by the two airlines flying to the airport. Checks by Daily Trust indicate that an a one-way ticket from Ilorin to Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja on Arik Air is N45,000 for a 40-minute flight while Overland charges N53,500 on the same route for a trip on next day. However, the price varies according to the proximity of the travel date. Checks on the website of Overland indicated that the lowest fare on Abuja-Ilorin or Ilorin-Abuja is N38,500 for travel dates such as December 16; 20; 29; 30 and 31 while other dates cost between N40,000 to N50,000. This is more than the price of a return ticket from Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA), Lagos to Abuja with a flight time of 50 minutes. Ilorin to Abuja on Arik costs N38,545 one-way while Arik doesn’t fly to Lagos from Ilorin. For Ilorin to Lagos, findings indicate that the lowest price on Overland is N38,500. One of the passengers, who is a teacher in one of the universities in the state said, “The fares are too expensive and the airlines are making it difficult for people to fly.” Daily Trust reports that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had deregulated air fares giving the airlines liberty to determine prices in line with market reality. Spokesman of the authority, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, defended the airlines, saying prices are determined by “demand and supply.” However, he noted that passengers can decide not to fly “if they think the price is too much,” adding, “we have deregulated air fares as advised by the government and airlines can take the fare to any level that they want.” All Nigerian airlines are guilty of flight delays’ Air Peace to commence operation in Ilorin December Passengers’ influx pushes up air fares