A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State, Senator Kabir Garba Marafa, has distanced himself from the purported reconciliatory meeting between former governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari and members of the G-8 in the state. Yari, according to the publicity secretary of his APC faction in Zamfara state, Shehu Isah, met with some members of the G-8 reportedly to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state. The feud between Yari and the G-8 negated the fortunes of the party in the last general elections in the state.  The G-8 was a group of eight aggrieved governorship aspirants in the state. Reacting, Senator Marafa in a statement issued yesterday said he was not part of what he tagged, as “charade peace parley”. “I was neither contacted nor consulted by anybody for any peace parley to resolve the APC crisis in Zamfara state…. “Now that he (Yari) is out of power and out of favour from God and the people, he is now trying to come up with a kangaroo peace meeting to relaunch himself back to relevance. He refused to listen to the voice(s) of reason when peace would have benefitted  our people and party,” Marafa said. Meanwhile, a former gubernatorial aspirant in Zamfara state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Aminu Sani Jaji, has said the party is now one and there is no faction whatsoever. Jaji, made this clarification while reacting to a story credited to the APC Publicity Secretary in the state, insinuating that he (Jaji) met with former Governor Yari in Abuja as a representative of the G8 group. Reacting to the story, Hon. Aminu Jaji, who spoke with newsmen in Abuja, explained that he attended the meeting in his personal capacity and not as a member of any bloc, adding that the G8 no longer exists. The former member of the House of Representatives admitted that as part of their resolve to put behind them the crisis that led to the APC losing the state in the 2019 general elections, they had agreed to sheathe their sword and find a common ground to reposition the party for greater success. I’m not part of Yari's Kangaroo peace parley — Sen Marafa Yari and lessons from Zamfara Marafa/Yari feud threatens APC in Zamfara