Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni has called on Yobe people in every part of Nigeria and the world to come and invest in the state. He spoke at the Government House, Damaturu, weekend at a reception in honour of the Senate President. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan and the Minister of State for Works and Housing, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu. “We need Yobeans to set up new factories and farms that could recruit and engage our youths, we need new investments in education and agriculture and healthcare. As you know, these are things thatgovernment alone cannot do. The task of moving our state forward must be a collective one,” he said. He said the occasion was a celebration of Lawan and Aliyu for what they were doing to make Nigeria better and the state proud, and a celebration of the nation’s democracy. He said it was the uneasy relationship between the executive and the legislature between 2015 and 2019 that propelled many in the National Assembly and across party lines to seek a different and new approach after the 2019 general elections. “It was what produced the forces and consensus that led to the emergence of a new National Assembly leadership, under the distinguished Senate President Ahmed Lawan who believes in the significance of a cordial working relationship with the executive as the quickest and surest means of achieving national development. Today, thanks to his robust leadership and the support of his 108 senate colleagues, the Senate President has restored that vital trust between the legislative and executive branches of the government. “ Buni said Aliyu, from his years as a civil servant to over 10 years as a deputy governor of Yobe, had demonstrated what service, respect and loyalty means. Responding, Lawan thanked the people of the state for supporting his journey in politics, saying their belief in him placed place a burden on him which he must all times remain committed to by representing the state very well and “representing what we believe in this state which is a united and progressive Nigeria full of equity, justice and fairness.” In his own remarks, Aliyu said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration had made great improvement in the delivery of infrastructure such as roads and railways across Nigeria. “The direct impacts of President Buhari administration’s policies and programmes have made great improvement in the infrastructure delivery in terms of provisions of roads, railways, power supply all of which are evident. “President Buhari has done so much to correct national direction and place it on the path of for a better future.” The immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibrahim Geidam, said he had no doubt that in the months and years ahead, Lawan would continue to do the state proud by recording many more achievements and advancing legislation that would continue to promote Nigeria’s corporate existence and uplift citizens’ living conditions. Geidam also said that he did not regret appointing Aliyu as his deputy.  Hot race for APC National Secretary as Buni becomes Yobe governor - elect 100 days after Buni’s exit, battle for APC scribe persists PDP depletes further with more defections in Yobe