Nigeria went ahead last week to test the 5G technology at a time many countries were still shilly-shallying about it. This took many by surprise. But it didn’t just start with the trial. The fifth generation (5G) technology which is an advanced wireless technology literally turned world attention towards Nigeria on Monday, November 25. The trial of the new technology in Abuja by MTN Nigeria that day surprised not a few Nigerians. But the journey actually started about three years ago.  Laying the foundation Nigeria’s journey to 5G revolution began immediately after the deployment of 4G in 2016.  In readiness for 5G, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) adopted the Open Access Model (OAM) and Optimum Spectrum Utilization to address the fixed and wireless broadband infrastructure deficits (gaps) respectively. This paved way for the licensing of about six Infrastructure Companies (InfraCo) to lay broadband infrastructure across the country. They are expected to cover a total of 28,902km across the six zones. The InfraCos are to roll-out broadband networks over a period of four years across all LGAs, with deployment taking place in every state annually, in order to ensure national spread of broadband penetration and services. But the implementation of the initiative will be based on phased deployment strategy that focuses on commercially viable areas first, according to the NCC. The InfraCos will deploy at least one fibre Point of Access (PoA) in every LGA across the country. Each fibre PoA will have a capacity of 10 Gigabit per second (Gbps).  Spectrum utilization The NCC ensures that spectrum is fully utilised for the deployment of 5G services through re-farming, re-planning and auctioning of new ones. The telecom operators were allowed to re-farmed part of their 2G spectrum for deployment of LTE (4G) and 5G services. The NCC has also re-planned part of the CDMA 800 MHz spectrum for the provision of 5G services. 1900 MHz is also being re-planned to make available additional 2 slots of the 3G spectrum. In addition, the 2.6 GHz spectrum has been auctioned to boost wireless broadband delivery. The commission has also ratified guidelines for Commercial Satellite Communications, which include; Earth Station in Motion (ESIM), Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT), VSAT Hub, and Space Segment Satellite Operators. Further to this, the NCC has granted the first Landing Permit to a Space Segment Satellite Operator, which will bring enormous broadband capacity to Nigeria. NCC Executive Vice Chairman Prof Umar Garba Danbatta said: “The NCC has opened up new spectrum spaces, in which we’ve identified some of the potential frequency bands that may be harmonised for 5G deployment in region 1, which include: 26GHz, 38GHz, and 42GHz. “Therefore, we suspended the licensing of those frequencies in readiness for 5G deployment. This step will ensure that Nigeria is not caught unawares when those frequency bands are harmonised by standardisation bodies. “Also, the NCC is in the process of developing an IMT (International Mobile Telecommunications) roadmap and associated guidelines on frequency migration in Nigeria. This IMT roadmap will ensure regulatory certainty and proper planning for 5G roll out, amongst others, by the operators.’’ He revealed that commercialisation of this new technology is on top gear, with many companies busy making sure their devices and networks are 5G-ready in time for the global launch. “Working alongside existing 3G and 4G technology, 5G networks will help power a huge rise of Internet of Things (IoT) innovations, providing the infrastructure needed to carry huge amounts of data and allowing for an even smarter, more connected world. Speedier connections that stay online no matter where the user is offering an average download speed of around 1GBps,’’ Prof Danbatta said.  MTN latches on to the efforts The Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria Ferdi Moolman, said: “Pushing boundaries is easier when your aspirations are supported by likeminded people. We are here today because of the support and guidance of the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Nigerian Communications Commission which provided the trial spectrum used for this.” The Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue, stated: “In collaboration with our technical partners and the support of the federal government, we are proudly putting Nigeria on the 5G technology map.  As we continue to invest in technology solutions to meet the wide needs of our customers, MTN will continue to strengthen these partnerships as we move to build our 5G capacity in future, guided by the standards and spectrum set by the Nigerian Communications Commission.” MTN Nigeria acknowledged the remarkably critical role played by the NCC in creating the regulatory platform for early trial of 5G technology deployment in the country. Mohammed Rufai, Chief Technical Officer of MTN, gave the commendation at the second trial of 5G technology by MTN, conducted at MTN Office, Etta Agbor Road, Calabar, Cross River State. He explained that “MTN had worked with the NCC in all the stages leading to today’s trial in Calabar in order to let stakeholders see the huge potential, possibilities and the connectivity available to transform all aspects of our life through 5G technology.”  What is the big deal about 5G? The technology elevates the mobile network to not only interconnect people, but also interconnect and control machines, objects and devices. In addition to the bandwidth increase for seamless video streaming, 5G technology also supports real-time, ultra-reliable communication between massive numbers of devices. It creates vast possibilities in innovation and transformation, and will immensely improve quality of living, as users gain a better experience of services and technology in general – from financial services, healthcare, education, and even public service delivery to more leisurely purposes, such as video streaming services, gaming and even self-driving cars. The NCC Executive Vice Chairman said 5G will enable billions of new connections with speed and security. “It will connect everything to everything (X2X), acting as a critical enabler for Massive IoT, Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs), remote critical control and more. “Cars will be connected to the roads and cities they navigate; doctors connected to the medical devices of their patients; and physical infrastructure and assets connected to those tasked with maintaining and managing them,’’ he said. “5G offers tremendous benefits in terms of speed, latency (less delays), efficiency and security. This pilot offers a unique opportunity for us to explore use-cases and applications in Nigeria, and we are excited about its potential for our country and our company,” the Chief Technical officer, MTN Nigeria, Mohammed Rufai said. “As you can see, the speed on 5G network is 10 times the current Internet speed being enjoyed on 4G networks,” he told the enthusiastic audience at the Calabar trial.  The economic advantage A World Bank study has shown that, for every 10% increase in broadband penetration, there is a corresponding increase of 1.3% in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of developing countries. In its own right, broadband is an enabler for social and economic transformation of every nation. It will increase the capital intensity of the telecoms industry in Nigeria because of the service providers’ increase in infrastructure deployment to satisfy the ever-increasing demand. This may create room for double the size of the current $68 billion investment in the industry, in the next 10 years. Though, this investment is huge, but it is by no means adequate for one of the fastest growing telecommunications markets in the world as “we have about 38 million Nigerians yet to be reached with basic infrastructure and services, in unserved and underserved areas’’. The NCC boss said: “We’ve shown investors the NCC roadmap for broadband, with its new frontiers for investment. This includes: the Open Access Model  initiative, the InfraCo Project, our 5G deployment readiness, and the access gaps for market opportunities that new entrants could leveraged on in Nigeria’s telecoms space.’’ With the federal government’s goal of improving the business environment and commitment from investors, the possibility of 5G revolutionizing Nigerians’ way of life is immense. And with the potential applications for medical imaging, video conferencing and gaming, 3D holographic communication, 5G provides the needed speed and required low latency that will support this kind of application on a network. Nigerians will get to enjoy 5G in 2020 when the actual deployment of the technology is expected to happen. NCC, experts meet to develop 5G’s regulatory framework Nigeria emerges first in W/Africa to launch 5G trial Nigeria emerges first in West Africa to testrun 5G technology