Stallion Group, a conglomerate operating in different sectors of the Nigerian economy, has refuted news of the shutting down of its operations. The company said its operations continue unhindered in spite of a court judgment arising from company’s indebtedness to Nigerian Banks and Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) had refuted report in some quarters that it had taken over the company. The Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr. Anant Badjatya said the news that it has shut down operations is completely baseless and false. According to the statement, “a few of the rented & leased properties were affected because of the court’s ex parte order, which was done without any notice. We are unable to comment further on this as the matter is sub judice. Stallion’s legal team has appropriately taken it up with the judiciary. “The company has banking lines with local banks for regular business operations like all other major conglomerates in Nigeria and clarifies that it does not owe N330Bn to the banks as specified by the media. On the contrary the organisation enjoys a very good customer loyalty across businesses and has a sound financial position with more than N750bn in assets with approximately N150bn liabilities, most of which is a receivable from Federal Government, which translates into a very healthy debt to equity ratio,” the statement explained. “The published news articles as well as WhatsApp messages being circulated around are fake news being stirred up by business rivals. The entire incident started when a few of the Stallion showrooms in Victoria Island were sealed off on Tuesday 10th December as a result of ex parte order and this fuelled the media and public speculation. No other properties have been affected anywhere else in the country. Furthermore, some locations which were sealed off in VI are now open and working,” the statement further clarified. Stallion group denies shutting down operations in Nigeria Braiding Manufacturers to continue operations - AMCON Who ruined Skye Bank?