A member of the Gombe State House of Assembly, Hon Rambi Ibrahim Ayala, has called on the state government to settle accumulated salaries of staff of the five state-owned tertiary institutions in the state. Daily Trust reports that the salaries of staff of the College of Education, Billiri; State Polytechnic, Bajoga; College for Legal and Islamic Studies, Nafada and the Gombe State University of Science and Technology, Kumo, as well as College of Health Technology, have not been paid for about four months now. The lawmaker, who represents Billiri East constituency at the assembly, made the call in Billiri during an empowerment programme, where a car, motorcycles, sewing machines and N2 million were distributed to members of his constituency. “The people of Billiri LGA have appreciated the wonderful job the governor is doing, however I would like to use this opportunity to tell Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya that people of COE Billiri and other four tertiary institutions are yearning for their salaries. “Whatever the issues are, we need to get these institutions running and for that to happen, the staff have to be paid their salaries, which has accumulated for over four months now,” Ayala said. Our correspondent reports that for the past four months the workers have continued to work without being paid their salaries. However, Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya’s Special Adviser on Public Communication and Strategy, Anas Ibrahim Kubalu, said the government was reviewing unnecessary expenditure to block leakages and pay the accumulated salaries owed by the tertiary institutions. According to him, the previous administration has been borrowing to pay the salaries of the institutions, which he said was not good for the state’s economy. “Since 2015, the past administration was borrowing to pay the salaries of such institutions, however since coming to office we vowed not to borrow in order to pay salaries. “As such, the salaries of these institutions have been captured in the 2020 budget which was already passed into law by the house.  Therefore, the accumulated salaries would definitely be paid by the government,” he said.  Gombe Lawmaker urges government to pay owed tertiary institutions Delta govt. disowns 700 staff of tertiary schools Gombe tertiary institutions workers groan under non-payment of salaries