Emir of Kano Malam Muhammad Sanusi ll has barred Sokon Kano, Alhaji Ahmadu Abdulwahab from the palace. The action prohibiting Sokon Kano from access to the palace came 24 hours after an elders’ committee led by former Head of State, General Abdussalami Abubakar appealed to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, and the emir to refrain from taking any further action in connection with the creation of new emirates in the state. Sokon Kano was said to have made some derogatory comments on Emir Sanusi at the graduation of Police cadet officers held at the Police Academy, Wudil last week. The palace guard was shown in a video clip that went viral on social media making the comments during the event. Confirming the development, Sokon Kano told Daily Trust in a phone call that the development manifested yesterday after he reported to the palace in the morning. “I reported to the palace today (yesterday) in the morning. I joined other palace guards in accompanying the emir to the palace, but minutes after the emir settled on his seat, the Chief of Staff to the emir, Alhaji Munir Sanusi approached me. “He queried why I was at the palace and I told him that I simply reported for my usual work. He then informed me that my presence was no longer needed in the palace because I cannot align with the palace enemies and at the same time remain with the palace. “He then ordered me to leave the palace and never to return. “While I was still sitting, the chief of staff sent the emir’s orderly to the DCO in charge of the palace and after few minutes conversation, the DCO came and ordered me to leave the palace,” he said. Sokon Kano was the third palace personnel to be sacked by emir Sanusi since the beginning of the lingering crisis between him and governor Ganduje. The first to be sacked was the Personal Private Secretary to the emir, Alhaji Isa Pilot, followed by Majasirdin Kano, Alhaji Auwalu Idi. Efforts to reach the chief of staff to the emir, Munir Sanusi for comment proved abortive, as phone calls made were unanswered.  FG: 25,000 made in Nigeria vehicles ready this year FG approves draft policy for Parks reform FG receives final draft of National Transport Policy