Doctor is basically a title for teachers or scholars. It was derived from the Latin word doceō (I teach). Ironically, it has been observed that the use of Doctor’s title is confusing in today’s world. For example, if someone is addressed as doctor, one can hardly predict what their profession or qualification is, this is so because in a general sense, there are three (3) majorly recognized bearer of the Doctor’s title in Nigeria. We have the Medical Doctors, Academic doctors (PhD) and honorary Doctors. Although, there are other bearers of Doctors title, but in Nigeria, these are the mostly recognized and used in public space. Among laymen, the only people mostly recognized as doctors are medical practitioners. As a matter of fact, some laymen do not know there are other kind of doctors, apart from the medical doctors. Recently, I heard of a story in which a man is called doctor in his area. One day, a child suddenly fell sick early in the morning, but rather than rush the child to hospital, the mother ran to the apartment of the doctor hoping for a quick intervention, only for the man to inform her that he is not a medical doctor, but an academic doctor (PhD). The woman was said to be disappointed, as she could not understand what an academic doctor is all about. Later on, she was reported to have said, if you can’t treat an ordinary child, you shouldn’t be answering doctor. To her, a doctor is simply a medical practitioner. In political circle however, especially among Nigerian governors, most of those addressed as doctors are merely honorary doctorate degree holders. I am of the view that, the title of doctor should be limited to those who rightly deserve to bear the title, while other bearer should seize to use it henceforth. But real question is, who is a doctor? As earlier noted, the word “doctor” originally (circa 1300) meant “religious teacher,” “adviser,” “scholar,” or just “teacher.” In retrospect , it was discovered that Doctor is an academic title that originates from the Latin word of the same spelling and meaning. The word is originally a noun of the Latin verb docēre ‘to teach’. It has been used as an honored academic title for over a century in Europe, where it dates back to the rise of the first Universities, the earliest of which was the University of Bologna. This use spread to the “Americas”, through its former European “Colonies”, and is now prevalent in most of the world. The roots of Doctorate can be traced to the “Early church” when the term “doctor” referred to the “Apostles”, “Church fathers” and other “Christianity” authorities who taught and interpreted the “Bible”. The right to grant a licentia docendi was originally reserved to the “Catholic church” which required the applicant to pass a test, take an Oath of allegiance” and pay a fee. The right to use the title remained a bone of contention between the church authorities and the slowly emancipating universities, but was granted by the “Pope” to the University of Paris” in 1179 where it became a universal license to teach (licentia ubiquie docendi). It is important to point out that, the earlier contention between the church authorities and universities over who should use the title was put to rest when Pope granted University of Paris the right in 1179 and ever since, it is known exclusively as a title conferred by the Universities. The Ph.D was originally “Academic degree” granted by “University” to learned individuals, who had achieved the approval of their peers and who had demonstrated a long and productive career in the field of philosophy (in the broad sense of the term, meaning the pursuit of knowledge). The appellation of “Doctor” (from Latin: teacher) was usually awarded only when the individual was in middle age. It indicated a life dedicated to learning, knowledge, and the spread of knowledge. The Ph.D entered widespread use in the 19th century at “Humboldt University of Berlin” in Berlin as a degree to be granted to someone who had undertaken original research in the sciences or humanities. From there it spread to the United States, arriving at “Yale University in 1861, and then to the “United Kingdom” in 1921. This displaced the existing Doctor of Philosophy degree in some universities; for instance, the D.Phil. (higher doctorate in the faculty of philosophy) at the “University of St Andrews” was discontinued and replaced with the Ph.D. (research doctorate). However, some UK universities such as “Oxford University” and “Sussex University”(and, until recently, “University of York” retain the D.Phil. appellation for their research degrees, as, until recently, did the “University of Waikato” in “New Zealand”. (To be continued) Abdulrazaq O Hamzat is an Executive Director at Foundation For Peace Professionals, Abuja. A taste of Nollywood’s medicine How patients die daily in Lagos due to doctors strike Learned, Noble, Comrade