Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has said that he was not in a position to decide where his successor would come from after the second term in office, saying only God and the Kogi electorate can decide that. The governor said this yesterday while reacting to demands on power rotation made by the Kogi West Elders Forum who paid him a congratulatory visit at Government House, Lokoja. Governor Bello, who said the issue of power rotation in the state should be a public discourse, added that the people of Kogi state believed in equity, justice and fairness. He said he wouldn’t talk on his successor and where the next governor would come from amongst the three senatorial districts of the state. Governor Bello, who said he had been reaching out to all stakeholders for reconciliation, assured of his readiness to form an all-inclusive government that would reflect the interests of every segment of the state. The governor also told the elders that the three arms of governments in Kogi State were working in cordiality, adding that the little disagreement with the judiciary as regards biometric data capturing of judicial workers had been laid to rest. The governor promised to continue to fight insecurity and provide more infrastructure for the people, adding that all ongoing projects in the state would be completed. Earlier, Gen David Jemibewon (rtd) who led the forum, in his opening remarks, said they were on a congratulatory visit to the governor on his victory at the just concluded governorship polls in the state. While giving the submission of the Kogi West Elders Forum, Major General Julius Olakunle Osanupin (rtd) said the governor should ensure that all stakeholders in the state were consulted in the formation of his new cabinet for input. Osanupin urged the governor to ensure executive and political power rotation within the state, noting that the concentration of power in a particular senatorial district has been the cause of violence in the state in the past. He said the governor should ensure the conduct of local government elections as soon as his second term takes off, adding that if it will be delayed as a result of lack of fund, the governor should consult the elders and stakeholders in the appointment of the local government administrators. Amongst those that visited the governor included Alhaji Idris Yusuf, the Aguma of Tawari, Dr Tunde Aronsoye, Chief Funmilayo Fatima, Vice Admiral Joseph Ajayi (rtd) and Col. Olusegun Oloruntoba (rtd). I can't decide who takes over from me, Bello tells Kogi West elders Kogi guber: Bello’s eyes on PDP primaries Kogi workers give conditions for Yahaya Bello's re-election