The Nigerian Business Coalition Against Aids (NiBUCAA) has given the Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, Engr Lars Richter, the award of Global Best Practice in the fight against HIV/AIDS.” A statement by Julius Berger’s Head of Media Relations, Prince Moses Duku, said the NiBUCAA award is in recognition of the managing director’s outstanding commitment towards corporate Global Best Practice for sustenance of the environment and humanity. Duku quoted NiBUCAA’s executive secretary, Mr Gbenga Alabi, as saying, “In my interactions with staff and representatives of the management of Julius Berger, I have seen a huge growth in their passion for the fight against HIV/AIDS. The commitment by all at the company under Engr. Richter has been awesome. That we now have NiBUCAA’s Abuja office inside Julius Berger’s facility there is a solid pointer to the company’s worthy commitment to the health of Nigerians. “Today we have Julius Berger as our landlord in both Lagos and Abuja. It takes a committed person in the mould of Engr. Richter to not only provide us with the land for an office; but to largely build and furnish it the way the most recent effort of Julius Berger shows. We are grateful to the MD for this unique role in the fight against AIDS. It is in tandem with the cherished global best practices for not just the environment but human cooperation and wellbeing, too,” The statement also quoted the Medical Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Clinic, Dr. Musa Shaibu, as recognising Julius Berger’s partnership  in the fight against HIV/AIDS. “They have provided us with accommodation in their premises in both Abuja and Lagos. We thank the management and staff of the company for their special contributions towards mitigating and hopefully eradicating HIV/AIDS. Julius Berger certainly deserves a special place in the history of NiBUCAA,” Dr. Shaibu was quoted as saying. Julius Berger wins Top Brands Nigeria award Julius Berger’s furniture company wins award at Abuja Housing Show Berger, Setraco for construction coys football tourney finals