The Catholic Caritas Foundation of Nigeria (CCFN) an organ of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) on Sunday in Abuja donated food and clothing materials to the needy as part of activities marking this year’s World Day of the Poor. Speaking at the event held at the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria (CSN) Durumi, Abuja, the Secretary General of CSN, Rev. Fr. Zacharia Samjumi, said Nigerians must be each other’s keeper and that helping the needy is also helping the society. He said this year’s World Day of the Poor theme: “The Hope of the Poor will not Perish Forever” is apt and should be accorded maximum priority. He said the third Sunday of November every year is set aside as the World Day of the Poor, to remember poor people in the communities, by lending a helping hand to them, and showing them support and love, which effortlessly give them hope. On his part, the Executive Secretary/CEO Caritas Nigeria and National Director, Church and Society, Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria, Dr. Uchechukwu Obodoechina, said this year’s theme underscores the truth that, though underprivileged, the poor members in the society are not without hope. “What, then, does this mean? In the midst of the suffering and injustice which confront them, their faith never eludes them. In our society, we see poverty on the streets, at the work place, in our neighborhood, even in the house of God! This poverty is caused by greed, injustice, avarice, armed conflict, unemployment, political unrest, economic disintegration and so on. “As noted by Pope Francis, daily, the poor yearn for the love of God, made visible by “the saints next door”, who by the simplicity of their lives, express clearly the power of Christian love. How is this Christian love epitomised? Noble acts of charity and love shown the poor and solidarity with them in their plights, strengthen their resolve to push through misfortunes. The acts of kindness shown the poor militate against the alienation of any member of the body of Christ. It is in light of this that the Catholic Church demonstrates her unity even in our cultural and religious diversities,” Obodoechina said.  Catholic Caritas Nigeria donates to needy in Abuja Catholic foundation tasks youths on skills Hate Speech bill a distraction to be discarded, says Catholic church