Despite accepting to be the chairman of the Kano State Council of Chiefs, the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi ll may run into another round of troubles with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Daily Trust Saturday can report. A source close to the state government confided in Daily Trust Saturday last night that whichever way the emir replied to the 48-hour ultimatum given to him, the fight would still go on. According to the source, although the emir had accepted to be the chairman of the state’s Council of Chiefs, government would capitalise on the conditions the emir gave in his reply to nail him. A new directive of the Kano State Government will require Emir Sanusi to seek approval for official matters from the chairman of Kano Municipal Local Government instead of the age-long practice of channeling such requests directly to the governor. Sanusi will also have to accommodate the offices of the four other first class emirs of Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi at the Gidan Makama complex situated in his domain. Daily Trust Saturday exclusively gathered yesterday that the state government came up with the plans to change the channel of communication between the state government and the Emirate Council and to also create offices for the four other emirs in the heart of Sanusi’s territory, after receiving the emir’s acceptance letter to head the state’s newly established Emirs’ Council. The state government, through a letter dated December 19, demanded Sanusi to indicate his ”acceptance or otherwise” of his appointment as chairman of the council to reach Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje within two days of the receipt of the letter. In his response, also dated December 19, the emir communicated his acceptance to the state governor Although traditional rulers are constitutionally recognised as answerable to local government chairmen of their domains, the practice over the years, especially in Kano, has been for the emir to relate directly with the state government. “The emir talked about provision of secretariat and announcement of other members of the council. Let me tell you, government will provide the secretariat and then provide an office for each of the four newly appointed emirs,” the source said. “Again, government will also make it clear that any time the emir wants to travel, he should take permission from the chairman of his local government, that is Kano Municipal. “Any attempt by the emir to disobey these and other conditions, he will be accused of disobedience and that alone can lead to his dethronement,” said the added. The source further said the emir was issued two letters requesting him to either accept or reject appointment. The source recalled that the first letter sent to the emir was on December 9, 2019 and he responded on December 12. In the emir’s first reply, a copy obtained by Daily Trust Saturday, Sanusi did not clarify whether he accepted the appointment or not, a situation that resulted in a second letter, in which he was given 48 hours to respond. In his first reply, Emir Sanusi, in the letter signed by the acting secretary of the Kano Emirate Council, Alhaji Abba Yusuf, dated December 12, 2019, indicated that the emir was away from Kano for an official assignment, hence could not respond to the letter sent to him by the Kano State Government. “His Highness Sarkin Kano has been away from Kano for an official assignment throughout this week. His Highness attended the meeting of Northern Traditional Rulers’ Council in Kaduna on Monday, December 9, 2019. He then proceeded to Abuja where he attended the meeting of Nigerian Traditional Rulers’ Council on Wednesday, December 11, 2019. “On Thursday, December 12, 2019, His Highness was in attendance at the Nigerian Inter-Religious Council meeting, also in Abuja. “I have been directed to inform you that His Highness acknowledges receipt of the letter and has taken note of its contents,’’ the letter read.” It would be recalled that prior to the acceptance by Emir Sanusi to be chairman of the Council of Chiefs, there were calls for and against his removal by civil society organisations. A group of 34 civil society organizations, suspected to be sponsored by the government, called on the governor to remove Emir Sanusi for alleged disobedience to the governor. The group, apart from holding a press conference at the American Corner of the Kano State Library, further presented their request in a letter to the governor. However, in less than 24 hours, 183 other civil society organisations believed to be sponsored by Emir Sanusi, issued a statement, dissociating themselves from the earlier call. BREAKING: Ganduje appoints Ado Bayero's son, 3 others emirs More troubles for Emir Sanusi Emir Sanusi replies Ganduje’s query, says I inherited only N1.8bn