Senator representing Gombe Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly Muhammad Danjuma Goje, yesterday, announced his decision not to contest election again. Senator Goje, who made the disclosure at Pantami Township Stadium during a programme tagged ‘Goje Empowerment Programme’, said he would however remain in politics. A two-term governor of Gombe State,  Goje said he would give younger ones opportunity to also grow and showcase their God given talents, especially in this modern era of politicking. He said, “having contested and won all seven elections in addition to being a minister for the country, I strongly believe that Almighty Allah has been extremely kind to me and I also believe not many Nigerians are so lucky and blessed. “It is in this light and having reached an advanced age, that I wish to formally inform you that I have decided not to contest any election again. For the avoidance of doubt, in 2023 and beyond I will not contest any election at any level.” He however, said he would continue to be an active card carrying member of the APC and participate in all political activities at all levels. The former governor told the mammoth crowd of supporters, family and political associates how he ventured into politics about 40 years ago during the second republic. Senator Goje, who is chairing the Senate Committee on Marine Transport, said he would continue to support the administrations of Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan and APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole. Our correspondent reports that 12 cars were distributed to state chairmen of the APC as well as chairmen of the party in the 11 LGAs of the state. Also, 114 motorcycles were distributed, one to each of the ward chairmen of the APC across the 114 political wards and over N19m to other executives of the party across the state.  I won't contest election again - Senator Goje Senate presidency: Goje endorses Lawan after meeting Buhari Why Gombe PDP chieftains are leaving in droves