The dealership crisis between Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL) and Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited has exacerbated as both companies now engage in claims and counter-claims. However industry experts and stakeholders are calling for truce, saying the controversy is not healthy for the auto industry. Daily Trust reports that both TNL, which is the authorized representative and distributor for Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan had recently issued a notice that it had revoked its dealership with Globe Motors. TNL in an advertorial published in major national dailies, said Globe Motors “is no longer a Toyota accredited dealer hence is no longer authorized to transact any business on behalf of Toyota (Nigeria) Limited. “As such, Toyota (Nigeria) Limited will not be liable for any business transaction with Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited.” TNL listed its accredited dealers to include Elizade Nigeria Limited, RT Briscoe (Nigeria) PLC, Omoregie Motors Limited, Germaine Auto Centre Limited, Mandillas Enterprises Limited, Metropolitan Motors Limited and Kojo Motors. But Globe Motors in a counter publication said the company remained “bonafide and accredited importers and distributors of Toyota Vehicles.” “Elizade Motors Limited, also trading as Toyota Nigeria Limited, are afraid of Globe Motors’ strides, they are afraid of competition,” it said. Daily Trust learnt that TNL decided to revoke the dealership with Globe Motors over allegation that the latter was importing vehicles unilaterally without recourse to Toyota. More so, the vehicles, according to Toyota sources were not approved for the Nigerian market. GMNL was also accused of infringing on the dealership agreement with TNL being the sole representative of TMC of Japan; all the allegations it dismissed as “false and misleading.” There are indications that the TMC of Japan backed the TNL’s decision to revoke the dealership agreement with GMNL as the parent company has continued to deal with its sole Nigerian representative. But some industry experts want the two companies to sheathe their swords. Dr. Oscar Odibo, an industry expert in a chat with our correspondent urged the warring said, “One thing I will like to tell all of them is that they are having a lose-lose situation. They are injuring their businesses and they are injuring the industry. “At this time that this automobile industry is facing its own challenges, we don’t need bickerings like this. If you have issues of distributorship, dealership, there are other ways of sorting it out. There are people that TNL can listen to that Globe Motors can bring into the matter’’, he said. On his part, a former Director of Policy and Planning Department of NADDC, Mr. Luqman Mamood said the controversy is not new in the industry, saying it is a market war. According to him, while Toyota Nigeria Limited is the accredited dealer of Toyota brands in Nigeria, this does not stop other companies from selling the brand. However, he said TNL should concentrate on educating the buyers on the benefits of buying from accredited dealers. He said, “I think the conflict goes beyond this two. It seems whoever is the authorized Toyota dealer between them may be irritated by those who import the brand from secondary sources. This needs not be because the authorised dealers have privileges which the others don’t have. “For instance, if a Toyota model is recalled, only vehicles sourced from authorised dealers will be compensated. I think authorised dealers should concentrate on educating buyers  on the advantages of buying from them. There are more. As it is now, automotive dealers can import from anywhere or any brand. The Nigeria automotive policy regarding dealership requires that you must have infrastructure on ground for after sales support including spare parts.” Disquiet as Toyota, Globe Motors part ways Toyota Nigeria parts ways with Globe Motors Toyota sold 15,000 units in 11 months