This Manual for the Young Pensioner will at casual glance seem contradictory. Pensioners are overwhelmingly more than half a century old. Still, this item is basically meant for the young pensioner. But the reader should note that there are thousands of oldies in Nigeria and elsewhere in the world who can correctly call a 60-year old person “young.” However, the young pensioner in the context of this item refers to anyone just starting a career in any with the expectation that the person will live  and work up to, and if lucky, far beyond the applicable statutory retirement age for his or her calling. The just-joined the working and earning life person is tomorrow’s retiree and pensioner and should earnestly start preparing for a life in retirement. This manual is a guide toward a satisfactory life in retirement. The young pensioner should realise that most of the privileges extended to staff at the workplace to make you happy and maximally productive for the benefit of your employer would be terminated on your retirement. Prepare for the small storm that comes with termination of those privileges. If you have been attending employer-sponsored training programmes to update or upgrade your skills for efficiency on the job, there will be no more such sponsorship for you just a day after retirement. If you, a young retiree, feel that you need to improve, upgrade or update your knowledge at the end of your salaried life, start working for it on your first day of that salaried job. This is vital for your post-retirement life in this era where technology simplifies, enhances, complicates and kills many fields of endeavours. Do not become static and unwilling to learn to live happily in the current era in which new skills are essential. Acquire as many new skills as you can afford. They can become handy in your days as a pensioner. There are many government agencies and private entities where “handworks” and other entrepreneurial skills and activities are taught. You can use your spare time to learn as many of such “handworks” as possible as you prepare for a relatively stress-free life in retirement. As it is 100 per cent certain that the day will come when you will be weaned off the career or job you started recently. At that time you will have no workplace to go, or receive a pay cheque, as a routine. You need to plan how to have somewhere to go and also receive a pay cheque even if only for a modest amount on regular basis. The only place where you will be totally welcomed and feel at home continuously at old age is a place you own. So, you should start working out how to legitimately own a retirement home. Start planning and paying for it on the day your career or working life took-off.  The home can be in the community where you will spend most of your working life, or where you lived your childhood, the place you may call “home town.” And to get a regular cheque in retirement, all you need to do as a young pensioner is to start sending it to yourself by saving right from your first pay-day. Just be regular at sending one tenth of your salary to a self-managed retirement savings account. This is in addition to your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) managed for you by a Pension Fund Administrator under the watchful regulatory eyes of the National Pension Commission (PenCom). This requires lots of discipline in say, avoiding impulsive spending. There are more regular expanses which must be met by retirees and pensioners regardless of their financial status: cost of healthcare and education for self and offspring. Add food, clothing, occasional essential travels and utilities. The young pensioner should think about and proactively plan for and meet these expenses. Pensioners’ fitness tools Pensioners lament ‘rigorous’ biometric exercise, seek own ministry P16