TWINS are often born identical, but in the case of a Florida brother and sister, the two couldn’t look more different  Twins are often born identical or looking similar in appearance, but in the case of a Florida brother and sister, the two couldn’t look more different. Nine-year-old She’riq Elliott from Pembroke Pines was born with albinism but her twin brother, Te’riq Elliott, was born without the condition, leaving many strangers refusing to believe that the pair are actually related – particularly because they are so different in personality. ‘People sometimes don’t believe we are twins,’ She’riq said. ‘We’re totally different. He’s funnier than me and I’m just kind of calm.’ ‘Everybody comes up to me and they’re like, “Why are you lighter than your brother?” So I tell them,’ she continued. Te’riq added: ‘I help my sister because my friends always tell me, “Hey Te’riq why is your sister a different type of color?” and then I just explain it and they’re like, “Oh that’s cool.”’ One in 18,000 to 20,000 people in the United States are born with albinism, which causes pale skin, sensitivity to the sun, and eyesight issues. This wasn’t the first experience of albinism for parents Sherria and Terry Elliott Sr., who had welcomed a daughter with the same condition 10 years before the twins. Now 20, older sister Sheterria has been a mentor and support for She’riq, having navigated the negativity that can come when living with a misunderstood condition. ‘I think that I’ve helped my sister cope with having albinism because I’ve gone through all the hard times so I was able to educate her, let her know that it’s not a disease, you’re okay, we’re going to be fine,’ Sheterria said. ‘I would tell her how to respond to certain remarks, be nice, but let them know what it is that you have.’ She recalled when the twins were first born: ‘I was in elementary school and I was so excited because I wanted one to come out looking like me.’ ‘My brother picked me up from school and we went to the hospital and everybody was quiet,’ she continued. ‘They took me to the NICU because they said one of the babies was in there. ‘I go to the window and when they opened the window, my sister was there and she had a head full of blonde hair like me. She looked just like me. I started crying. That was the best moment ever.’ Older brother, Terry Jr. said: ‘It was just a reincarnation of me and Sheterria. I’m the oldest and she’s under me so when I found out that Te’riq came out like me and She’riq had albinism it was like a whole me and Sheterria born again.’ While there’s no history of Albinism in Sherria or Terry Sr.’s family, the combination of their genes appears to have a significantly increased chance of resulting in a child with the disorder. Dad Terry Sr., said: ‘We didn’t know one of the twins had albinism until She’riq was born. Looking at the doctors’ facial expressions was just amazing. It was shocking to all of them.’ Now nine, the twins are an inseparable team, with the calm and centered She’riq balancing out her more animated brother. Meanwhile, Sheterria has now learned to overcome the negativity and embrace herself – modelling and launching her own eyelash extension company. Recently the twins and Sheterria were chosen to be part of an uplifting photo series called the ‘Skin I’m In’ project, which was exhibited in Houston, Texas.  Culled from dailymail.co.uk Inside weird and wonderful lives of twins with same fingerprint ‘Every parent has a favourite child’ We still cook our meals, say Octogenarian twins