Those who have been following the political development in Sokoto State will not be surprised with the recent verbal war between the two political gladiators in the state; Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa for some obvious reasons.  The duo was reported to have traded words at the Sultan Abubakar III International Airport, Sokoto, before boarding the same flight to Abuja early this month. Bafarawa was said to have been irked by the statement made by Wamakko during a rally organised in solidarity with him by his supporters in the All Progressives Congress (APC) after the tribunal judgement which upheld the victory of Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal at the 2019 governorship election in the state. Wamakko, who was said to be responding to an earlier statement by Bafarawa at a PDP victory rally, purportedly described his predecessor as a seasonal migrant to Sokoto. Bafarawa had during the PDP rally called on his predecessor, Wamakko, to bury his ego, accept the verdict and support the incumbent governor to succeed, a statement which didn’t go down well with Wamakko who still believes that the victory of Tambuwal was a broad daylight robbery against the APC and its governorship candidate, Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto. Bafarawa was said to have shunned Wamakko who stood to greet him at the VIP lodge of the Airport on his arrival. “You said I am a seasonal visitor to Sokoto. Why are you greeting me? I know my father and grandfather were born and died here. I can even show you their graves. Can you show me the grave of your grandfather?,” he allegedly asked Wamakko. Wamakko was said to have refused to respond to Bafarawa. But another account said he stood by his statement that Bafarawa is Danchirani (a seasonal migrant) in Sokoto. “I don’t want to know where your father and grandfather are buried. All I know is that you are a seasonal migrant in Sokoto, that is all,” Wamakko was quoted to have said. “There are other people whose parents and grandparents have been buried here, but you called them seasonal migrants as well. So, just go and face your businesses,” he allegedly told Bafarawa. Some political observers said the incident was unbecoming of the two key political figures but added that it was not, however, surprising considering the deep seated animosity between the duo. Daily Trust reports that the two have a long standing feud which started towards the end of Bafarawa’s eight-year-administration in Sokoto State. It would be recalled that between 2005 and 2006, they had a running battle while Wamakko was Bafarawa’s deputy, culminating in his resignation ahead of an impeachment move said to have been orchestrated by the then governor (Bafarawa). Some political analysts say the two fell apart because of irreconcilable political differences which the two big politicians may not be willing to reveal the real reasons from the public. After his resignation, Wamakko was made the governorship candidate of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), a party which he later left for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to become its governorship candidate. Wamakko, however, defeated the anointed candidate of Bafarawa, Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi, the current Minister of Police Affairs in 2007. Dingyadi later joined Wamakko’s camp. Since the defeat of Bafarawa’s proxy, Wamakko has remained high on the political altitude of the state. On the other hand, Bafarawa, who can be described as a living legend at some period, has lost much mileage in the politics of the state. He has been losing elections to Wammako’s camp since 2007. During the rerun election of 2008, Bafarawa’s candidate, Dingyadi, was again defeated by Wamakko. Also in the 2012 election, Wamakko beat another Bafarawa-backed candidate, Yushe’u Kebbe of the defunct ANPP. Similarly, in 2015, Wamakko again walloped Bafarawa when his candidate, the incumbent governor secured victory over Bafarawa’s  preferred candidate, Senator Abdallah Wali, who contested on the platform of the PDP. It would be recalled also that Wamakko set up a commission of inquiry to investigate some selected activities of Bafarawa during his second term as Governor between 2003 and 2007. He was made to answer questions on his stewardship with the proceedings beamed on television. On his appearance, Bafarawa gave two reasons why he honoured the commission’s invitation. It would also be recalled that Bafarawa had, during the grand finale of the PDP governorship rally in 2015, promised to send Wamakko to prison in retaliation of his brief incarceration by the court during his trial by the EFCC over alleged breach of public trust and embezzlement of fund during his reign if the PDP eventually formed a government. However, when he was discharged and acquainted of the charges in 2018, Bafarawa submitted a petition to the EFCC against Wamakko. Submitting the petition at the new zonal office of the anti-corruption agency in Sokoto, Bafarawa insisted that his successor had a case to answer concerning the over N11 billion he allegedly left in the state’s treasury, and the N500 million, he allegedly left in the account of Sultan Muhammadu Maccido Institute for Qur’anic and General Studies. “I want the agency to investigate Wamakko since I am discharged and acquainted over a similar allegation,” he said. The defection of Governor Tambuwal from the APC to the PDP was generally believed to have afforded Bafarawa an opportunity to bear his fangs against Wamakko as he was instrumental to the strength of the PDP, particularly in Sabon Birni/Isa federal constituency. This was said to have led to the outcome of the governorship election which favoured Tambuwal against Wamakko’s candidate, Aliyu. With the continued running battle between the two leaders, which dated back to when they held offices as Governor and Deputy Governor of Sokoto State, analysts say the current exchange of words may not be the last.  Back to the beginning: Bafarawa’s political gamble Bafarawa, Wamakko trade words at Sokoto airport Settling the APC leadership tussle in Sokoto