Operatives of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit (Taskforce) on Saturday began the demolition of over 2,500 shanties it considered as blocking the on- going construction of roads at the Marwa waterside, Lekki. The state government had, penultimate week, issued a seven-day quit notice to owners and occupants of illegal structures in the area or risk losing them. At the expiration of the seven-day notice, the state government issued them another eight-day grace to enable them relocate. But some owners still hadn’t relocated by the weekend and the task force swung into action on demolishing the structures. The task force Chairman, Olayinka Egbeyemi, said the demolition of all illegal structures, shanties, kiosks and containerized shops at the Marwa Waterside area of Lekki, Lagos, became imperative in preparation for the construction of a coastal road that would serve as an alternative route linking the Lekki and Epe expressway. Egbeyemi said that the alternative road would enhance free flow of traffic along the Lekki-Epe corridor. He said, “Illegal business operators like iron benders, automobile mechanics, food/fruits vendors and others were served a seven-day ‘Removal Notice’ by the government to remove their property and vacate the entire area. The notice for them to vacate the area expired on Thursday December 19, 2019. “The activities of the vendors in the area are an eyesore as artisans, food vendors and others littered the entire area with refuse.” Egbeyemi further stated that investigation revealed that none of the illegal occupants, as well as business operators in the area had any valid permit from the state government to operate there. He added that miscreants exploited the nature of the dirty environment that the activities of the mechanics and food vendors created to be freely smoking and selling Indian hemp. Prostitutes, he said, also engaged in prostitution around residential premises. Egbeyemi vowed to clamp down on all criminal elements disturbing law-abiding residents within Marwa waterside and the entire Lekki axis. He warned all illegal occupants on government lands/property to immediately vacate them as it would not be business as usual across the state.  Taskforce to demolish shanties at Lekki for road expansion Lagos taskforce demolishes 2,500 illegal structures in Lekki Taskforce set to remove illegal structures in Lekki from Dec. 21