The leadership of Kwara State House of Assembly has been accused of restraining the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Abdulraheem Agboola, from being sworn in as a lawmaker. The Court of Appeal had sacked the All Progressives Congress (APC) member representing Ilorin South at the Kwara state house of assembly, Hon. Hassan Abdulazeez Elewu, and declared the PDP candidate winner. The PDP member staged a protest at the assembly gate yesterday over the alleged refusal of leadership of the legislative house from allowing the winner of the Ilorin South state constituency, Agboola, to enter the chamber. Speaking with journalists at the gate of the assembly complex, Agboola said that the House had been denying him opportunity to enter the chamber since he received certificate of return from the INEC last Thursday. “As we all know, Appeal court is the last destination for the House of Assembly election petition process. Its ruling has declared me winner. I started from the tribunal. I have my certificate of return from the INEC national headquarters, Abuja. The INEC in Kwara did the official presentation. According to the process, I have to come to the House in person to do documentation with the clerk of the House in order to ratify, verify, genuineness of the certificate. “This is our third time of coming here. Since last Thursday that the certificate was issued, then Friday and today, they did not attend to us. The Speaker, the Clerk and all of them have made themselves not to be available. We’ve been patient, telling our supporters not to be violent. This is the House we built. I served here between 1999 and 2003. “We got here by 8:00 am today, but the security personnel said that the Speaker would address us when he comes. We said there’s no need for any address but entry into the House,” he said. Also speaking with journalists, the chairman House committee on Information, Culture and Tourism, Awolola Ayokunle, said the house had been served “a court summon” in a motion on notice filed in the Federal High Court, the Ilorin judicial division, restraining the House from swearing in the PDP candidate pending determination of the case. Ayokunle assured members of the public that the house was ready to abide by the rule of law. Appeal Court sacks Kwara APC lawmaker Again, Kwara lawmaker prevented from Assembly despite court order Travails of suspended Kwara lawmaker