The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, has said that the Electoral Act, when amended, would make provisions for consequences of violating electoral guidelines and regulations among others. Omo-Agege, who said this yesterday at the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room’s stakeholders forum on elections in Abuja, stated that the proposed bill to amend the Electoral Act, which he co-sponsored with Senator Abubakar Kyari of Borno North Senatorial District, had passed second reading and now approaching the stage of public hearing. He said one of the provisions captured in the bill would mandate the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to suspend an election in order to allow a political party that lost its candidate before or during an election to conduct a fresh primary to elect a replacement or new candidate. “The proposed Bill to amend the Electoral Act would focus on resolving issues surrounding INEC’s introduction of modern technologies into the electoral process, particularly accreditation of voters,” he added. On his part, Festus Okoye, INEC’s  National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, said “the Commission will not share its constitutionally and legally guaranteed regulatory powers with any individual, political party, groups or organizations. Rather, the Commission will approach the National Assembly with new proposals to further enhance its regulatory powers and the provision of clarity on grey areas that have been exploited to whittle down its powers.” Okoye said the commission would be seeking the incorporation of the Smart Card Reader in section 49 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). “The individuals holding the Permanent Voters Cards must be the ones voting and not the cards. The Smart Card Reader is now part of our national asset and the Commission will not allow any individual or groups to undermine it. “We believe that Electronic Collation of Results (E-Collation) and Transmission of Results (E-Transmission) are possible and achievable in the 2023 election,” he said. Also, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN), said the administration was already working with the National Assembly with a view to ensuring an early passage of the amendments to the Electoral Act and the Election Offences Commission Bill into law. Represented by Ms Juliet Ibekaku, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Ethics and Justice, Malami said the government was committed to tackling the issue of electoral fraud and violence and supported the establishment of an Electoral Offences Commission. Earlier, Clement Nwankwo, the Convener of Situation Room, Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, had said the event was meant to discuss the current state of the electoral environment in the country and make recommendations and suggestions that would improve the political and electoral process in Nigeria.  Senate amends electoral act, collated results to be electronically transmitted 2019: Buhari gets new electoral act for assent Senate: Electoral Act amendment bill scales second reading