Some residents in Wuye have lamented the lack of water supply from the FCT Water Board. The residents said the situation had subjected them to untold hardship in getting potable water for their daily needs. A resident, Abu Mohammed, who resides in Thugs Ville on Umar Shuaibu Avenue in the area said some residents now take jerry cans in their vehicles to get water from neighbours or far distances. He said though most of the house owners in the estate had drilled boreholes, few beg to fetch water from their neighbours or go to their friends outside the estate. Mohammed said they have not experienced such lack of water supply for a long period of time in the area. “It is now up to four days since we last had water. They brought the water this morning (on Sunday) but not in all the houses,” he said. Mohammed said there are 67 houses in the estate, which is one of the several estates in the district. Some of the residents said they were attracted to the district due to its proximity to the city centre with less vehicular activities and water supply from the FCT board, “but now if this continues I might be forced to reconsider,” a resident Solomon Dusa said. Dusa who has been residing in Wuye for about six years said the residents occupying the six flats in the compound on Ken Nnamani Crescent do not feel the brunt of the lack of water supply because the house owner drilled a borehole in the house. “Others from the street come to fetch water from us,” he said, but added that they had been stopped because there was no light to pump the water. He said no messages were sent to the residents from FCT water board unlike past cases when there was a repair to be done. “We are wondering what happened because we did not get any information from the water board. Before now, they used to inform us with messages on radio and newspapers. But now we were not prepared, only a few people have water, reserved,” he said. Unlike other districts without engineering infrastructure for water supply, the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) constructed over 32 km of iron pipes in the district with which it supplies residents in the area. The FCT Water Board Area Manager in charge of Wuye, Mohammed Alhaji Sheshi Ramat, said the disruption in water supply was caused by a major repair carried out by Julius Berger, which he said was completed on Saturday. “The water was released on Saturday and the pipe network is building up, more customers will soon get water,” he said. He said the residents were not informed before the repairs because “initially nobody thought it would take more than 24 hours for the maintenance to be done. It was after the excavation that the board invited Julius Berger to come along with their equipment for the job to be handled.” Residents groan as water scarcity persists in states Wuye District: Where residents face danger seeking for amenities If FCTA’s directors are liars, what about FCT council chairmen?