The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said it has concluded plans to launch a newly designed electronic platform tagged: ‘e-Customs.’ The e-Customs, which is an end-to-end electronic flow of Customs processes, will serve as a paradigm shift from paper or manual work processes to automated e-flows to improve the citizenry’s standard of living and to secure the lives and properties of all in Nigeria. The Comptroller General of Customs, who disclosed this recently, said the deployment of technology would go a long way in enhancing the activities and operations of the service. He added that the measure was part of its technological advancement geared towards adopting international best practices in Customs operations across the country. According to an online video by the Nigeria Customs Broadcasting Network (NCBN), a copy of which was shared with newsmen by the Customs spokesman, Joseph Attah, the benefit of the e-Customs include helping to boost revenue collection, and improve the security of the borders by controlling the security of import and export goods. The platform will help in reducing evasion of duties and smuggling, and also enable the Customs to produce accurate economic statistics, it stated. “E-Customs platform will also bring all players involved in international trade including traders, agencies and inspectors together under one platform. And its non-intrusive component will boost the capacity of Customs to better police the porous borders and ensure better monitoring of what comes in or goes out,” it added. At the full launch of the e-Customs, the platform will be accessible on web and mobile apps through the Customs website. It will be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari recently approved the engagement of a consortium of four firms to enter into a 20-year concession arrangement with the NCS and the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) for Customs modernisation project and establishment of digital as well as paperless Customs administration. The consortium of four firms include Bionica Technologies West Africa Limited as lead sponsor, Bergman Security Consultant & Supplies Limited as co-sponsor, Africa Finance Corporation (AFC), lead sponsor, and Huawei, lead technical service provider, noting that they are expected to establish a project special purpose vehicle (SPV) to implement the project. According to the Presidential directive, the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS) and Nigeria Export Supervision Scheme (NESS) revenue sharing arrangement between the SPV and government must commence with immediate effect on a pro-rata basis against the phase one of the $300 million investment programme. e-Customs will boost revenue, improve national security – NCS Can Customs stop smuggling, drug peddlers? Customs generates N1.1trn revenue in 11 months