An Igando customary court, Lagos, was filled with laughter on Monday when a 45-year-old man, Aroh Chike, narrated how his wife, Chioma, had starved him of sex for 12 months. “My wife is wicked. She has refused to make love to me the past one year. Before then, I used to beg her before she would grudgingly allow me to. I am not interested in the marriage any longer,” Chike said. The petitioner had approached the court seeking for the dissolution of his 17-year-old marriage to Chioma, with whom he has three children. He alleged she had been unfaithful and had even brought her lover into their matrimonial home. “My children told me that their mother usually brings a man home and the two of them would always enter our bedroom and lock the door. When I confronted her, she could not give me any reasonable answer. She had been denying me sex for over 12 months but gives it freely to her lover,” the angry husband said. He added that Chioma was also always embarrassing him in public by fighting with everybody over slight provocations. Chike, describing the respondent as “an irresponsible wife and mother”, said that she had once left the matrimonial home to an unknown destination for months without his knowledge and permission. “She is very lazy, does not wash nor cook. I do the washing and cooking. She is an unrepentant drunk. She is fond of drinking to stupor and will afterward misbehave. She is in the habit of always threatening my life with bottles, knives and other weapons. Please separate us before she kills me,” he pleaded with the court. The court president, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, held it was obvious from available testimonies and the respondent’s refusal to appear in court that the marriage had hit the rocks. “The court has no other choice than to dissolve the marriage. Both parties, henceforth, cease to be husband and wife. They are free to marry any partner of their choice, without any hindrance and molestation” Koledoye said. He, however, ordered Chike to pay a severance sum of N150,000 to Chioma for her to start a new life.