The recent introduction of fuel tracking initiatives bearing different code names is creating confusion among staff in agencies under the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, as well as stakeholders in the oil industry, Daily Trust reports. While the dust raised over a technology called Downstream Automated Fuel Management Information System (DAFMIS) to replace an earlier one, Aquila-2, is yet to settle, the introduction of a similar initiative called Operation White is causing uncertainty at the Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF), the agency responsible for implementing the N17bn DAFMIS project. But barely 24 hours after Operation White was unveiled, another one called Automated Downstream Operations and Financial Monitoring Centre (DOFMC) was launched. The Federal Government, on October 9, 2019, at the NNPC Towers in Abuja, launched Operation White which the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, said would help to authenticate the actual volume of products imported and consumed in the country. The new initiative comprised a team of 89 persons drawn from five key agencies under the Ministry of Petroleum Resources to ensure transparency and accountability in the distribution of petroleum products across the country. NNPC, which is the main driver of Operation White, in a statement, said the initiative was intended to achieve end-to-end tracking of petroleum products from the landing point to the pump to stem cross-border smuggling and diversion. At the unveiling ceremony of DOFMC in Lagos, Sylva said the activation of DOFMC and the launch of Operation White were very clear signs of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s commitment to stamping out sleaze from the oil and gas sector and placing it on the path of growth. The minister who was represented at the event by the Executive Secretary of the PEF Management Board (PEFMB), Mr. Ahmed Bobboi, called on all downstream stakeholders to work together to ensure the success of both the Operation White and DOFMC initiatives. Also speaking at the event, the Group Managing Director (GMD) of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, who was represented by the corporation’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Mr. Umar Ajiya, said the establishment of DOFMC would help in blocking leakages and boosting revenue for the Federal Government. Mallam Kyari said NNPC was committed to ensuring the success of Operation White and DOFMC in line with its renewed stance on transparency. On his part, the Managing Director (MD) of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Mr. Bala Wunti, explained that the two initiatives would enhance efficiency in the delivery of petroleum products to ensure availability and affordability. Mr. Wunti, at the Oil Trading and Logistics (OTL) Africa event in Lagos in October, told journalists that Operation White was also a response to the need to create a digital platform for blocking of leakages in the downstream. He said, “As we learnt from Operation White, which is basically a data capture initiative whereby we authenticate whatever we are bringing in and whatever we are consuming, we can have data for planning, budgeting and ensure that Nigeria is paying only what the citizens are consuming.” When contacted via SMS to clarify on how Operation White would impact on similar existing initiatives started by the government, he did not respond. Speaking during a recent tour of the state-of-the-art products loading facility of MRS Oil Nigeria Plc. in Lagos, Mallam Kyari said the recently launched Operation White initiative had so far produced significant results as the corporation now clearly knew the areas of losses, as well as reliability and integrity status of each and every facility under its control. Problem with the tracking initiatives Although the financial implications of the two latest fuel tracking projects have not been publicly disclosed by NNPC, Daily Trust reports that the new initiatives came after controversy trailed the Federal Government’s approval of N17bn for the PEFMB to spend on a technology (DAFMIS) that would track the movement of refined petroleum products in the country. DAFMIS was to replace a similar technology, Aquila 2, which had been in existence to track fuel movement, prevent fuel smuggling, diversion and ease payment of marketers. PEF began implementing the pilot phase of Aquila 2 in 2017 at about 13 filling stations across the country before it was controversially jettisoned for DAFMIS. The budget for Aquila 2 was about N3bn before it was usurped by DAFMIS, which insiders said was too expensive and an unnecessary duplication. Daily Trust further gathered that while the staff of PEFMB were still in suspense over the take -off of DAFMIS, they were thrown into confusion with the recent introduction of Operation White and DOFMC. Staff uncomfortable with frequent change of tracking devices Some of the staff of PEFMB who spoke with Daily Trust said they were confused over the introduction of similar initiatives by the Federal Government on the tracking of petroleum products. A staff who would not want to be named for fear of being victimised, said “First it was Aquila 2, and then came DAFMIS and now we are hearing of Operation White and DOFMC, all geared towards the same purpose. Indeed, we are confused.” Daily Trust gathered that the confusion among the staff of PEF also stems from conflicts in the roles regarding the tracking of petroleum products from source to destination. Another staff of the IT department at PEF said they were in suspense because in reality DAFMIS was not only meant for tracking of petroleum products, but that “it has hijacked the IT department of PEF.” He added that, “We are still left in the dark concerning DAFMIS. We are made to understand that the handlers of DAFMIS; Micro Access Limited, are completely designing a new IT department at PEF and we don’t know the implication of that.” Sylva, who on assumption of office was briefed at his office in Abuja by the agencies, said he was of the impression that it was the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) that had the mandate to track petroleum products from source to destination while PEFMB was to concern itself with paying equalisation. According to a statement from the ministry, the minister stopped the presentation being made by PEF on the tracking until he gets a better briefing on the issue. The Head of Corporate Communication of PEF, Saiyefa Osanebi, when contacted, promised to explain more on the initiatives but had not done so as at the time of going to press. No accurate data on Nigeria’s fuel consumption Our correspondents report that despite all the fuel tracking initiatives, there is no authentic data on the daily petrol consumption in the country. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Nigeria’s central repository of all data and statistics, once  declared that figures on fuel consumption spread around by different agencies in the sector cannot be relied upon for planning or policy decisions. For instance, Nigeria consumed 1.7 billion litres of petroleum products in August 2019, with at least 56.5 million litres supplied on a daily basis, a report by the NNPC showed. Analysis of the August 2019 oil production and supply report released recently revealed that 1.64bn litres of premium Motor Spirit (PMS) also called petrol was supplied while 52.918 million litres of the product was supplied daily. Also in the month, NNPC supplied 113.380 million litres of Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) also called diesel and Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK). The supply of these products was 3.657 million on a daily basis in the month. Putting everything together, the NNPC said it supplied N1.753bn of petroleum products in August 2019 with a daily supply figure of 56.576bn. In the previous months, the supply hovered between 70 million and 50 million on daily basis and 1bn to 1.4bn on monthly basis. Nigeria’s fuel consumption after border closure In October, the Comptroller-General of Customs (CGC), retired Col. Hameed Ali, had during a press briefing in Abuja said the on- going joint border exercise tagged ‘EX Swift’ had curbed the diversion of petroleum products from Nigeria to neighbouring countries. “As it is in the last report, our consumption of petroleum products has reduced by 10.2 million litres…” Ali had noted. However, some experts spoken to say the feat recorded in smuggling fuel out of Nigeria to neighbouring Benin and Niger have no relationship with the different soft wares and therefore could not have direct correlation with the drop in consumption.