Stakeholders have called on the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) to put in place effective measures to ensure that the transition to Enterprise Tax Administration System (eTax) is seamless. This, they said could be achieved  by ensuring that the tax administration system is optimized for effective service delivery which would  eliminate the bottlenecks that taxpayers currently face in obtaining and applying WHT credit certificates, processing employees’ tax clearance certificates, and resolving tax audit issues. They made the call at a  workshop for   key stakeholders which consisted of consultants, account and tax experts, large business organisations’ representatives, small and medium scale enterprises on the newly introduced eTax system in  Lagos at the weekend. In its drive to  generate revenue through  a seamless compliant tax system, LIRS had called for stakeholders and tax payers to adopt its Enterprise Tax Administration System (eTax), a digital, end-to-end, multi-channel solution for tax filing and payments. The system has capabilities for tax registration, tax calculation, filing of returns, payment and processing of treasury receipts. Speaking at a workshop on the new tax system, Wole Obayomi, Partner & Head of Tax, Regulatory & People Service (TRPS) Practice of KPMG in Nigeria said: “the introduction of eTax is a step in the right direction, as it would reduce tax compliance costs, increase the efficiency of revenue collection and improve the ease of paying taxes in Lagos State. “Taxpayers would, therefore, do well to take advantage of the digital platform,” he stated. Chairman of LIRS Hamzat Ayodele Subair said the goal is to develop a tax system that is seamless, electronic and user friendly, where tax payers can interphase with tax authorities and perform their civic responsibilities from the comfort of their homes and offices. In his view, the new tax platform was built with the tax payers in mind and aimed to boost efficient tax payment and transparency in the Lagos State tax administration. A tax platform which was built in partnership with Alpha-Beta Consulting, it seeks to enhance tax payers engagement, promote transparency in tax filing, provide flexible technology architecture for easy integration and effective management of state/enterprise wide data and business rules. Among some features entailed in the eTax portal are tax payers registration, payroll upload, return filing, upload payment schedule, tax payment assessment, bill generation, payment processing and notifications. According to LIRS, the new tax platform, which all individuals and corporates are expected to engage with and adopt from the kick off of 2020 upon registering on eTax.lirs.net <http://etax.lirs.net/> either as new or existing users, is key to help the Lagos State government boost its revenue generation and carry out its obligations to the state and its people in providing infrastructure among other things. How new reforms are impacting on tax revenue generation Lagos seals 6 companies over N50m tax default In Lagos, traders, transporters groan under heavy tax, extortion