FCT Minister Muhammad Musa Bello has urged the leadership of the FCT wing of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) to help the administration in fishing out quacks in the teaching profession in the territory. Bello made the call while declaring open the 6th quadrennial delegates conference of the FCT wing of the NUT in Gwagwalada, Abuja. Represented by the deputy director of Administration, Education Secretariat, Mr. Leramoh Abdulrazak, the minister said the administration has been working with the union in ensuring that there was improvement in the welfare of teachers in FCT. “In every profession, there are pretenders  and there are quacks and it is the responsibility of the NUT to assist the FCT administration to identify such pretenders and quacks who are infiltrating the teaching profession,” he said. Also, the Ona of Abaji and chairman of the FCT council of chiefs, His Royal Highness (HRH) Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, has called on the leadership of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) to engage qualified teachers who can impart knowledge to pupils in primary schools. Alhaji Yunusa, represented by the Etsu of Kwali, Alhaji Shaban Audu Nizazo, made the call at the 6th quadrennial delegates’ conference of the union in Gwagwalada yesterday. He said some of the teachers that are being recruited into the profession, especially at the primary school level were not qualified, saying “some of these teachers after obtaining NCE at colleges of education,  they will come and secure teaching appointment despite the fact that are not qualified, “ he said. In his address, the state chairman of the FCT wing of the NUT, Comrade Stephen Knabayi, said the delegates conference was a quadrennial event where delegates – teachers from every nook and cranny of the FCT come together, receive, discuss , plan and approve reports from the outgoing leadership before electing new ones. He added that the conference was another epoch making event in the history of the  union’s leadership journey. The NUT chairman said the union under his leadership has achieved a lot through the collaborative team work of the executives. He said his leadership has created additional four NUT branches for administrative convenience; cordial relationship with FCT education stakeholders, uninterrupted payment of teachers’ salaries and regular promotion. Why we want primary school funding under UBEB – FCT NUT chairman ‘Teachers now live above poverty line’ Govt shouldn’t toy with teachers’ welfare - NUT