A stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Kabir Garba Marafa, has distributed empowerment materials to 1000 party supporters and followers to make them self-reliant. The empowerment items by the Senator who represented the Zamfara Central Senatorial Zone between 2011 and 2019 included 100 motorcycles, 30 tricycles, 70 laptop computers, 500 sewing machines and 300 grinding machines. Presenting the items at the new APC state secretariat in Gusau, the factional party chairman, Alhaji Surajo Garba Maikatako, said the distribution of the empowerment items showed the level of Senator Marafa’s commitment to the welfare of the people, particularly members of the APC who despite all odds remained unruffled. “Our leader Senator Marafa is a lover of the downtrodden and a seasoned businessman. Hence, his resolve to always help those who are in need to make them self-reliant and also improve their economic status” he said. Alhaji Maikatako called on the APC members and supporters to support  Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle administration’s efforts at bringing lasting peace in the state. “We should all support the governor in ensuring lasting peace in our state because nothing meaningful can be achieved without peace and security,” the factional APC chairman loyal to Senator Marafa said. One of the beneficiaries who got a tricycle, Nasiru Muhammad Musa, from Maru local government area commended Senator for his kind gesture. “I am the happiest person in the world. I am partially blind and don’t have money. But with this tricycle given to me by Senator Marafa, I will give it out for work and be receiving delivery at end of work every day. This will help me to take care of my family and other needs,” he said. Other beneficiaries; Saleh Musa Bagega, Amina Mohammed, Junaidu Abdullahi and Mohammed Shekarau, expressed their gratitude to Senator Marafa for giving them a lifeline that would make them positive contributors to the state economy. Senator Marafa empowers 1000 in  Zamfara Why Marafa, others must support me — Matawalle I'm still in APC, Marafa tells Governor Mattawale