Senator Dino Melaye would ever be remembered by Nigerians because of his series of controversies he has been involved in, not just as a Senator but from his days as an activist and when he was elected as a member of the House of Representatives. However, Melaye, who was defeated in the supplementary election for Kogi West by Smart Adeyemi courted more controversies after his election into the Senate. The following are the things that the controversial senator will be remembered for: Unflinching Support for Saraki Dino will be remembered for his unflinching support for Senator Bukola Saraki since 2015. His diehard support for Saraki pitched him against the APC, Presidency and other powerful individuals in the country. Spat with Senator Remi Tinubu His spat with the wife of APC National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Mrs. Oluremi Tinubu, would hardly be forgotten. His uncomplimentary remarks to the woman surprised many including his supporters as it was regarded as uncouth and uncivilized to throw such darts to a married woman. During an executive session in the Senate, Melaye threatened to beat her up and “impregnate” Mrs. Tinubu right on the floor of the Senate. Melaye who claimed that she called him “Dog” said he felt no regret for his action. Drama with DSS After he was forcefully moved from the Police Hospital in Abuja to the Department of State Security Services (DSS) medical facility still within Abuja, Melaye, had created a scene as he refused to enter the main building of the DSS centre. Instead, he took position on the floor within the premises and demanded from the security operatives the reason for bringing him to the DSS medical facility. Melaye refused to enter the hospital and decided to stay put on the bare floor in the compound of the hospital. Dino as a ‘Nollywood’ figure The embattled Senator Melaye had penchant for the comedy. In one of his dramatic video clips which are uploaded on YouTube, Melaye is seen saying: “You speak the truth, you die, and you refuse to speak the truth you die; I have chosen to speak the truth and die. In another clip, he led a group of PDP protesting chieftain to INEC headquarters where he invoked “Holy Ghost Fire” on the commission if they fail to conduct free and fair election. A film he featured in is said to be on the way. Penchant for exotic cars Perhaps the one thing that Melaye would be remembered for most is his collection of exotic cars as is taste for vintage cars is unmatchable. A member House of Representatives, Gudaji Kazaure was seen aghast in a viral video when he saw Melaye’s exotic cars. Dino’s jumps out of Police vehicle Dino’s arrest and jumping out of police vehicle to avoid being taken to Lokoja for interrogation on alleged murder charges and other offences is another thing that he will be remembered for. Dino had escaped being taken for interrogation but ended off in hospital with injuries. Dino’s stylish royal regalia His unique sartorial taste, usually in blue Aso-Oke, with an orange cap knitted with beads to the upper chamber is one unusual thing about Melaye that the red chamber will live to remember. Senators, including his rivals used to shout: “Babalawo”, “Kabiyesi” and “masquerade,” from all corners, whenever the singing Senator walked into the Upper Chamber. Senator Peter Nwaboshi (PDP, Delta North) once raised a point of order, saying Melaye was not properly dressed, “he dresses like Babalawo”. Dino the ‘groundnut hawker’ Melaye’s picture hawking groundnut was once on the internet which generated a lot of interest depicting him as a personality that likes drawing attention. In the picture which also appeared on YouTube Dino was seen hawking groundnuts on the streets, a scene that attracted public attention. The singing Senator Senator Melaye has posted videos on social media of himself singing songs, some taunting the Kogi governor. This has earned him the nickname of the “singing senator”. Dino’s Academic turmoil In March 2017, Melaye was caught in another controversy of not graduating from Ahmadu University Zaria and Harvard University. The ABU graduation claim was later cleared by the Vice Chancellor and for the Harvard University; Dino defended himself that anyone who had attended an institution and received a certificate is a graduate. Dino’s storm in Politics Senator Melaye survived lots of political turmoil before he was recently defeated in the of Kogi West supplementary polls. Melaye narrowly escaped being recalled from his senatorial seat after a petition that almost 200,000 voters signed and submitted in July 2017. But, Melaye argued that the signatures were not from voters in his constituency and later, INEC confirmed that only 5.34% of the signatures were of registered voters in Kogi West, where he represented. Dino’s suspension from House of Reps first came to the public attention in 2010 when he was a House of Representative member. He was suspended for taking part in a fistfight in the chamber during a move to impeach the then speaker. Indeed, every senator in the upper legislative chamber, except for newcomers, have one or several experiences to share about the controversial Dino, including; the good, the bad, ugly and hilarious. But, long before Dino’s final exit from the Red Chamber, Mrs. Tinubu said she has forgiven him. Between Saraki, Tinubu: Who laughs last? APC, PDP senators clash over FG’s social intervention fund I remain in PDP, says Senator Dino Melaye