President Muhammadu Buhari says no individual vying for National Assembly and presidential positions in 2023 will be allowed to use their offices or resources to force themselves on Nigerians. President Buhari, who said this at State House, Abuja, while fielding questions from journalists at a brief event to mark his 77th birthday, promised to guarantee an atmosphere for free and fair elections in 2023. “What I want to promise Nigerians is that I will work very hard on free and fair election. All those that are going to succeed in the National Assembly and the Presidency, they better work very hard because I will make sure, using the law enforcement agencies, that elections are free and fair, nobody uses his office or his resources to force himself on his constituency,” he said when asked about his assurance to Nigerians while executing the second term mandate. The president, who was asked to reveal his message to the economic saboteurs in Nigeria, said: “Well, like I said, I have learned in the hard way. When I came in uniform, I collected those who were leading, took them to Kirikiri and told them they were guilty until they could prove themselves innocent. I put in place, based on almost all the geopolitical zones, committees to investigate them. “Those that were found to have lived beyond their means, the balance was taken and were given to the states. But I, myself, was arrested and detained. But they gave back what they had stolen. So, under this system, which is supposed to be more accountable, it is too slow for my liking, but I have to follow it.” Buhari urged all Nigerians to exhibit high sense of patience and patriotism in order to bequeath a worthwhile legacy to future generations. “What we see as rule, nobody can have his own way. We better accept the truth that we are one Nigerians, we will keep on building. “God has blessed us with land, people and resources. We must have the patience to exploit them and leave something for our future generations,” he added. President Buhari, who asked to express his feeling at 77, said, “I feel well at 77. A lot of those at 77 are on crutches and I am walking on my two feet.” ‘How Buhari’s ‘new’ gov’t should address Igbo concerns’ Obasanjo attacks Buhari, Osinbajo, INEC We’ll Not Accept any Interim National Government - Dr. Onu