The Federal, State and Local Governments should stop further borrowing as Nigeria’s debt-to-revenue ratio is currently about 54 percent, a level not too good for the country, the Daily Trust Board of Economists has advised. The Board in its communique issued after its end of year meeting held last weekend said: “The Board however discourages further borrowing by all tiers of government, but recommends strengthening of revenue and financial management practices, review of policies and laws for Public Private Partnership (PPP).” It advised on the use of the instrumentality of the National Economic Council (NEC) to have a holistic discussion between the federal and other tiers of government on realistic costing of capital projects in Nigeria. “The Board noted the increase in the nation’s debt stock to $83.8 billion or N25.7 trillion as at June 2019, up from $63 billion as at May, 2015 as reported by the Debt Management Office (DMO), which shows that in the last five years Nigeria has accumulated new debt stock of about $20 billion. “The Board is concerned about the usual practice of presenting our debts against our GDP and encouraged Government to consider using debt-to-revenue ratio as a more informative metric. “We note that Nigeria’s debt-to-revenue ratio is currently about 54% as against debt-to-GDP ratio of 18.99%, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF),’’ it noted. The Daily Trust Board of Economists said Moody’s and Fitch’s ratings downgrade for Nigeria from stable to negative may bring reduction in Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs), leading to reduction in foreign reserves and pressure on the value of the Naira. Members of the Board at the meeting include; Prof. Nazifi Abdullahi Darma [Chairman], Dr. Aminu Usman, Dr. Rislanudeen Muhammad, Tope Fasua [Secretary] and Ahmed Shekarau. The Board however commended the Federal Government for the sense of urgency it has displayed towards providing sustainable infrastructure for the citizens as a way of fulfilling their campaign promises and developmental aspirations. On diversification of the economy, the Board noted that non-oil GDP showed signs of weakness in the third quarter of 2019 with growth slowing down to 1.85% from 2.32% year-on-year, even though it was an improvement on the previous quarter from 1.64%. It advised that more efforts should be made by Federal and subnational governments to encourage domestic production and competitiveness of business enterprises, as a means of promoting non-oil GDP, especially in the context of our signing of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). On refineries, the Board recommended restructuring of the existing refineries in line with the law establishing them as full-fledged private limited liability companies. Reviewing the economy in 2019, the Board commended the Federal Government for its resolve to return the economy to the culture of long-term development planning, and the return to the January to December budget cycle. It however noted the increase in inflation rate to 11.85% due in large part to higher food inflation. The Board also noted that there is an urgent need for the Federal Government to effect a constitutional change by directing every revenue generating agency to limit its expenditure to only approved budgets and remit all excess revenue to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). “The Board said the current practice where the revenue generating agencies are mandated to remit only 25% of such revenues earned leaves too much room for suboptimal spending at the expense of every Nigerian citizen,” the communique stated. Reps to probe Nigeria's mounting debts Cut down borrowing, experts tell FG Reorient budget towards rural development, Daily Trust’s Board of Economists tells FG