A popular armed robbers’ catcher, Shehu Musa Aljan, has successfully arrested an animal rustler and recovered many cattle believed to have been stolen around Rijana, Kaduna – Abuja expressway in the state. The robbers’ hunter also recovered two AK 47 from the bandit while his accomplice escaped into the bush. While speaking with newsmen in Kaduna at the weekend, Aljan said the bandits tried to bribe him with N2million to allow them cross over the Kaduna Bridge with the stolen cattle. He noted that he has already handed the rustler and the money to the police command in the state. “I was at home when I got an information that some cows believed to be stolen around Rijana forest were sighted around Kaduna River; so I went there myself to monitor the route they may likely come through. “Later in the night, some people came to meet me that they heard I was around the area trying to stop them. So they promised me N2million if I allow them to pass through. “I played around and told them there would be no problem if only they settled me. They brought N856,000 cash and promised to ‎balance the remaining N1.2million if they passed through the river. “So, I held the one that brought the money but by the time we got to where his friends were waiting for him they had escaped with their guns living behind the cows,” he narrated. Aljan said two guns were recovered from the bandit arrested with many cows which, he said, he didn’t have time to count them,  adding that he had already informed the office of the Police IG about the incident. He commended the office of AIG Intelligence, Dr Lamurde at the police  Headquarters for his support towards fighting insecurity in northern Nigeria. On the issue of dialogue with bandits in state‎s like Zamfara and Katsina, Aljan kicked against it saying it’s wrong for state governors to dialogue with bandits. “In my opinion, I think it is wrong for any governor to dialogue with bandits because they (bandits) are not to be trusted. Let them hand over all their weapons and also released all people under their custody if they are really serious with the dialogue,” he said. He said the only solution is for the bandits to surrender their weapons or face the wrath of the law. Non-Boko Haram violence plagues Northern states INVESTIGATION: 322 herders killed, 60,000 cattle rustled in 2013 322 herders killed, 60,000 cattle rustled in 2013