At least 4,000 out-of-school children have been returned to school in Burji village of Doguwa Local Government Area of Kano State, following the construction of 20-classrooms capacity school by a philanthropist, Alhaji Badamasi Shu’aibu Burji. Burji community, with a population of about 40,000 people has been battling to acquire basic amenities like schools and hospitals for many years. Chronicle gathered that despite the fairly large population of the village, the community is lagging behind educationally due to inadequate schools for both conventional and Islamic education. Further observation indicated that a sizable number of the school-aged children in the community are either engaged in street hawking or farming. However, things are beginning to change for the people through one of their sons, Alhaji Badamasi Shu’aibu Burji, who built a 20-classrooms capacity school in the community. Apart from construction of the school, Burji also facilitated the enrolment of 4,000 indigent children into the school, provided free books, uniforms and food to all the pupils. Speaking to Chronicle, Alhaji Badamasi said he was moved by the low standard of education in his community and decided to build a school, with the necessary facilities. He said having come from an extended family that produced only two secondary school graduates, it pains him to see school-aged children wandering in the community whereas their age mates in other communities are in school. “Every day I watch as innocent-looking children play around on the streets of our village. I thought of how, in my extended family, only two of us were able to go to secondary school. It then dawned on me that even though I am not the richest person in the village, I have a duty to save these children’s future,” Burji said. He said that was the moment he began to plan for the construction of a school for his community. Amina Bello Bala is one of the beneficiaries. Amina, a physically challenged person, told Chronicle that the day she wore a school uniform was the best day of her life. ‘‘It was like a dream to me, that I, Amina is now going to school. That day that I wore my uniform was the best day in my life because my parents had no intention of taking me to school and here I am with free uniforms, books and a wheel chair, going to school, “ little Amina said. Another student, Kabiru Ado,12, said, “I want to be a medical doctor to help people in need. This is my wish and I am willing to study hard to achieve this now that I have been given the opportunity by Baba Burji. “The man has succeeded in convincing our parents to allow us go to school,’’ he said. For 51-yr-old Malam Shehu Shambu, a father of one of the children enrolled in the school, he never expected that his daughter would one day attend a conventional school, but with Burji’s intervention in the community; his daughter is now in an Islamiyya school. “You see, down here, our children are part of our capital, because they help us in the farm and they hawk for their mothers. That was why we never took it serious to send them to school. Some persons wanted to go to school, but they couldn’t go because we cannot send them far away from us and there was no school closer to us,” Shambu said. Borno’s ‘mega schools’, years after Southern Kano, a haven of dare-devil kidnappers Shara: Kano community without school gets education lifeline