A 42-year-old pastor of a white garment church in Osun State, Segun Philip, has been arrested for the alleged killing of a final year student of the Lagos State University, Favour Daley-Oladele, for the purpose of making money ritual for her 23-year-old boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi. Davey-Oladele was reported to have left home for an unknown destination since December 8, 2019 and wasn’t since then, hence her parents reported her missing at the Mowe police station. The Police Public Relations Officer, Ogun State police command, Deputy Superintendent Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the Divisional Police Officer of the Mowe Police Division, Superintendent Marvis Jayeola,  detailed policemen to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disappearance of the 22-year-old girl. Oyeyemi said, “The police detectives went into full scale technical and forensic investigation of the case and their efforts paid off when the movement of the deceased was traced to a white garment church in far away Ikoyi-Ile, Osun State, pastored by one Segun Philip.” “On getting to the church, the self-acclaimed pastor was promptly arrested but he was quick to inform the detectives that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, who was still within the vicinity of the church. The boyfriend was traced and apprehended immediately.” Owolabi, described as an ex-LASU student, was said to have confessed during police interrogation that Davey-Oladele was his girlfriend and that he lured her to Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State where he had perfected plans with the pastor to use her for money ritual. He stated further that while the girl was sleeping, the pastor gave him a pestle with which he used to smash the head of the girl and the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, rip open her chest and remove her heart, which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat. When asked what pushed him to such a devilish act, Owolabi explained that he decided to go into money ritual because things were not going well with his parents, especially his mother, economically. He said when he sought for assistance from the pastor, he told him to bring a human being for the purpose of money ritual and the available person at that time was his girlfriend. The Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and possible prosecution. Pastor, 23-year-old man, mum allegedly murder LASU female student for ritual 27-year-old man stabs ex-employer, ties her legs How Pastor beheaded secret lover, buried body in Church