The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) said it is creating more jobs and empowering more youths through its nationwide skills acquisition and entrepreneurship training. The Director General of NDE, Dr. Nasiru Mohammed Ladan Argungu, disclosed this on Friday when the management team of Media Trust Limited paid him a courtesy visit at the NDE headquarters in Abuja. Dr. Argungu said his agency maintains robust presence in the media space, adding that NDE has concluded plans to showcase what it has done in recent times to empower more Nigerians in the quest to reduce unemployment. “There is an arrangement with the Nigerian television Authority (NTA) called NDE Weekly, where NDE will showcase to the public a about what we are doing to create jobs and provide employment through skills development.” NDE at a Glance is a print media version of the NDE Weekly which the Directorate boss said will also portray the success stories of beneficiaries from the various programmes executed by NDE. NDE is under the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment operating since 1987 to curb rising trend of unemployment. Its interventions on mass job creation for the unemployed are in four key areas that are vocational skills development, entrepreneurship development, agricultural skills training and public works programme. Earlier, the Managing Director and Editor In Chief of Media Trust Limited, Mannir Dan Ali lauded the management of NDE for their patronage “We are here to hear from you on how we can support your mandate on passing information. For instance on how youth can see the opportunities in Nigeria and remain here rather than going out,” Dan-Ali.  He presented two initiatives to help NDE give out more information about its activities to the public. “The Co-created Content (CCC) would enable NDE to have a weekly platform on the Daily Trust newspaper to inform the public about its programmes and the success stories of those whose lives have been touched by such programmes. “There are countless stories of people who after that kind of engagement have been empowered. It is always good to tell those kinds of stories and that is what the CCC can do,” he noted. The Teen Trust, another initiative of Media Trust Ltd was created to boost the culture of readership among young ones. He urged the NDE DG and the other management officials to subscribe to Teen Trust to encourage reading by pupils and students across schools in their communities. 50 youths undergo training in agribusiness in Kogi NDE distributes tools, cash to youths in Taraba NDE trains 997 youths, women on vocational skills