Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) has revealed that no new free trade zone was approved in 2019 because of interference by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) in the process. Speaking to journalists on the performance of NEPZA in 2019 during the staff union’s end of year seminar held in Abuja, the Acting Managing Director of NEPZA, Engr. Terhemba Nongo, said, “out of perception, the FIRS said some free trade zones won’t start.” The NEPZA boss said a committee, comprising of relevant stakeholders, has been set up to resolve the problem and hopefully, about six new free trade zones pending on the table of President Muhammad Buhari may be approved. Daily Trust recalls that the present administration approved the establishment of new free economic zones to be sited in each geopolitical zone of the country (FEZs). However, the implementation has been stalled due to disagreement between NEPZA and the industry ministry on the implementing body and the custody of the funds released for the projects. On existing free zones in the country, NEPZA’s acting head revealed that the upgrade of Kano and Calabar free trade zones were almost complete. He said the upgrade involved provision of internal road networks, water supply and electricity to make the zones attractive to investors and manufacturers. The NEPZA boss said the federal government was targeting investors who would manufacture 100 per cent for export in the free zones. NEPZA unit Chairman of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), Mr Samari Yakubu, said those blocking NEPZA from implementing the FEZs were frustrating the federal government’s drive to diversify the economy. He said the incorporation of a private company to run the FEZs was to truncate the powers of NEPZA as enshrined in law. How N14.5bn diversion controversy affects Nigeria’s export project Why Trade Ministry moved special economic zones’ budget from NEPZA Industrialisation: How free zones can attract FDIs, create jobs