The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, says Governor Seriake Dickson should be held responsible for the defeat of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State. Governor Wike, who was reacting to allegation made by Dickson that he (Wike) was responsible for the PDP defeat at a press briefing in Port Harcourt yesterday, accused Dickson of selling out the governorship seat to the APC to avoid probe after his exit in February. He said that the actions of Governor Dickson preparatory to the election contributed to the defeat of the party. He accused the governor of intimidating some of the candidates that wanted to contest Senate and House of Representatives’ seats by asking them to withdraw from the race. He also accused the governor of sponsoring somebody from his senatorial district for the deputy governorship position, adding that it was a major factor that led to the defeat of the party’s candidate. He said that he single-handedly provided transport and logistics support to all the PDP governors that visited Bayelsa before and during the governorship election, alleging that the governor did not worry about the welfare of his visitors. “I challenge Dickson to ask the PDP governorship candidate in Bayelsa, Duoye Diri, what contribution I made for governorship election. I provided vehicles that took PDP governors to Bayelsa during the election. You forced two senators to withdraw from the election. “You took the deputy governorship candidate from your senatorial district. What do you expect the people to do? Do you think they will be happy with you? He worked for the downfall of the party. “I supported Timi Alaibe because he is my friend. He came to me and told me that he wanted to run for an election. I have to support him because he is my friend,” he said. The governor berated his Bayelsa State counterpart for his comments on the contentious Soku oil wells, which a Federal High Court recently ruled in favour of Rivers. According to Rivers Governor, the comments credited to Dickson after the court’s judgement was unfortunate and an act of frustration. “It is unfortunate. As a governor, there is a level you should not descend to. “I will protect the interest of Rivers State. It is unfortunate. I read all his comments. I understand the level of frustration and you should not lay your frustration on us,” he said. Speaking further, Wike accused Dickson of being the one causing disharmony in Ijawland, stating that the protocols demand that a governor should notify his colleague while planning to visit his state.  You are responsible for PDP defeat in Bayelsa, Wike blames Dickson Wike, Dickson on warpath over political differences Wike played role in PDP loss in Bayelsa — Dickson