Senator Kabir Garba Marafa’s younger brother, Alhaji Sambo has explained why he resigned as the Special Adviser to Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state, saying there was no rift between them at all. Sambo, in a statement he issued to newsmen, said he resigned to enable him concentrate on his private businesses and most importantly to pave way for other persons from their teeming supporters to be considered for appointments. Sambo was a member and principal officer in the Zamfara State House of Assembly between 1999 and 2003, said the cordial relationship between his senior brother and the governor spanning decades was intact and flourishing for the benefit of the state. “Governor Bello has been a senior brother to me because he is a very close friend of my elder brother. The struggle we made that saw us to Supreme Court  was not done to put PDP in Government, it was done to defend our collective rights and that of our people. My gratitude therefore goes to Allah (SWT) then to Governor Bello for finding me suitable to be appointed as his Special Adviser out of over four million people in Zamfara state,” he said. Stating his real reasons, Sambo said; “Looking back at the journey from our party congresses to rancorous party primaries and the long journey through the state high court,  appeal court and finally the Supreme court and the massive support my brother got from the length and breath of our state and even beyond, I reasoned, it would amount to extreme selfishness to put myself first before so many prominent members of my brothers political camp, especially those that were either prisoned, sacked, or wickedly sidelined/redeployed. All because of the  struggle to emancipate our state. ” I resigned to make room for some of them to be considered,” he said. Before tendering his resignation, Sambo said he intimated his brother, Sen Marafa who supported and advised him to inform the state Governor. “When I informed  the governor, he reasoned with me and he thus happily accepted my resignation, wished me well in my business and promised to look for a suitable replacement from one of our deserving members. ” Like my brother, I will always pray and work for the success of Matawalle’s administration because his success, is ours. I’m ready to make any sacrifice for our beloved state,” he said. Recalling the security challenges faced in the state during the immediate past administration, he said it behoves all in the state to rally round the present administration of Governor Matawalle to provide the much-needed peace in the state. Why Yerima wants to reconcile with Shinkafi –Zubairu My daughter is already eyeing my Senate seat  – Sen. Marafa I'm still in APC, Marafa tells Governor Mattawale