Farming and herding communities of Kwaren Ganuwa in Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State are lamenting over non-existence of market and abattoir in their domain, calling on the authorities to look into their immediate needs. The locals, who spoke to our correspondent in the village, said absence of market was seriously affecting their well-beings as their major occupations are farming and herding. According to them, they will have to hire commercial vehicles to convey their farm produce to other markets even to as far as Gusau, lamenting that the cost of transporting the goods to those markets is draining the income accruable from the harvest. “For quite a long time, we don’t have local market for our farm produce. If we get the market, there would be no more market search for our harvests. In fact, other merchants will be flooding the market for businesses as obtained in other places. “We are calling on the authorities to look in to our plight with a view to helping us. If we can get some market stalls and an abattoir constructed, our rural economy will improve. We are not longing for a very big market because we know that market construction is a gradual process. “But at least we have to start somewhere and we will be advancing gradually. The traders are not coming because there are no stalls to display their goods. We have the land and the zeal to develop the market,” a resident, Tukur Muhammad, said. Another resident, Sani Haruna, said every week, not less than ten cows and 30 goats were been killed in the community for consumption but regretted that there was no abattoir for such mass slaughtering of animals in the community. “Most of these animals are being slaughtered on daily basis at the frontages of residential houses and this threatens the health of the residents. ‘’The only abattoir in the community has been reduced to relics and it has not being put to use for a long time. “The construction of the abattoir will not only guarantee the consumption of a healthy meet but will also improve the economic well-being of both the butchers and other residents of the community. We will be highly grateful if our request would be considered by the relevant authorities,’’ he added. The village head of Kwaren Ganuwa Sarkin Rafi Musa Haruna, also pleaded with the authorities to consider their requests, owing to the important of the projects to the community. “The community is in dire need of market and abattoir, we can do better as a people if we can have the projects, more especially that our population is growing and the demand for economic survival is ever increasing,” he added. Kebbi farmers demand attention from new administration Bakalori irrigation farmers suffer rice, wheat glut Juicy biz at Katsina’s ‘tomato community’