A Non-Governmental Organization (NGO), the Habiba Foundation, has donated a tailoring centre and seven sewing machines to the inmates of the Oba Correctional Centre in Abeokuta, Ogun State. The foundation also donated a borehole and ultra- modern mosque to a juvenile detention centre, Borstal Institution in Adigbe. While handing over the tailoring centre and sewing machines to the correctional home authority, the Founder of Habiba Foundation, Engr. Rasheed Sumola, said the gesture was to support the efforts of government. He explained that it became imperative to provide a means of livelihood for inmates so that they would not become a threat to the society after leaving the correctional facility. Sumola added that the foundation was concerned about how they could reintegrate the inmates back to the society and make them useful for themselves. He said, “This (intervention) was done so that we can give our brothers (inmates) here something they would be doing after they leave this place and they will not become a nuisance to the society. “We are giving them this tailoring centre with some sewing machines so they can have a means of livelihood.  We have employed a tutor that would be training them on how to sew cloth and other things that has to do with tailoring,” he said. In his remarks, the Deputy Controller in charge of the Oba Correctional Centre, Shuaib Ayodeji, commended the foundation for its continuous supports for inmates. Ayodeji noted that the collaboration with the foundation had brought development to the correctional home. He said, “I feel fulfilled that during my tenure we have this kind of situation here.  When I came on board, I met barely nothing but with my patience and collaboration with different organizations within and outside the state, we have been able to do so many things.” Foundation donates tailoring centre, sewing machines to Ogun inmates Correctional service in A/Ibom says 70% inmates awaiting trial 36 freed inmates get starter kits after skills acquisition