The Chief Executive Officer & Lead Coach of Constellation Coaching Group LLC, Mrs Joké Coker, has been admitted into the Forbes Coaches Council, USA. The vetting and invitation were based on the depth and diversity of her experience, Scott Gerber, founder of Forbes Councils, has said. “We are honored to welcome Joké Coker (JC) into the community. Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capitaldriven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world,” Gerber said in a statement. Mrs Coker’s vetting and selection were done by a review committee. Forbes Coaches Council is an invitation-only community for leading business and career coaches. Criteria for acceptance include a track record of successfully impacting business growth metrics, as well as personal and professional achievements and honors. As an accepted member of the council, Joké has access to a variety of exclusive opportunities designed to help her and her organization maintain peak professional influence. She will connect and collaborate with other respected local leaders in a private forum. Joké will also be invited to work with a professional editorial team to share her expert insights in original business articles on Forbes.com, and to contribute to published Q&A panels alongside other experts. Coker will also benefit from exclusive access to vetted business service partners, membership branded marketing collateral, and the high touch support of the Forbes Councils member concierge team. In Forbes Council, exceptional business owners and leaders come together with the people and resources that help them thrive. Responding, Coker expressed gratitude for the invitation, saying in representing Constellation Coaching Group LLC and the crop of excellent coaches in West Africa and around the world, her aim is to propel continued growth in the impact and appreciation of the life changing work being done by the coaching community in general and further cement Constellation Coaching Group’s Leadership position in propelling people and organizations to being their very best. “At Constellation, we truly believe in the human propensity for excellence – that there is brilliance in everyone and it is our privilege to work (both in the USA and Africa) with our clients to help them excel sustainably,” she said. Constellation Coaching Group’s CEO admitted into Forbes council Kuje killings: We’ll ensure culprits are punished – Council boss What can Dangote do for the NSE?