The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has adopted President Muhammadu Buhari as its presidential candidate. SDP adopted President Buhari at the end of its NEC meeting held yesterday in Abuja. The NEC was attended by Prof. Tunde Adeniran, SDP Deputy National Chairman (South); Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali, National Vice Chairman (North East); Hon. Emeka Atuma, National Organising Secretary; Alhaji Shehu Musa Gabam, National Secretary, and the Deputy National Chairman (North), Dr. Abdul  Ahmed Ishaq, who read the communique issued at the end of the meeting. The party, which said the adoption was for President Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo alone, added that the political alignment with the APC which shared its ideals and values was far better than any action that would disenfranchise its members. The party said it was convinced that with the SDP and the APC working together, SDP had a better chance of gaining lost grounds in meeting the yearnings of Nigerians after further weighing the options and reviewing the political situation in the country. The SDP regretted that since the end of its convention held in Abuja on October 6, 2018, and the emergence of Donald Duke as the presidential candidate, the party had been enmeshed in litigations which had “significantly” sapped its energy, time and resources. A communique issued at the end of the meeting said, “With less than 10 days before the presidential election, our great party is caught up in a web with very little room for manoeuver. “The options before us at this critical juncture are limited: we either realign our forces or we lose out completely. It is in view of all these that the NWC of the SDP has resolved to adopt President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osibanjo of the APC as candidates of the party for the 2019 presidential election. Consequently, all members of the party are hereby enjoined to vote for President Buhari of the APC at the presidential election coming up on Saturday, 16 February, 2019. “For the avoidance of doubt, NEC restates that this is not a merger between the SDP and the APC and therefore the SDP retains its identity and remains a distinct political party,” the communique added. SDP adopts Buhari, to work with APC govt after 2019 elections SDP denies planning to oppose Buhari’s administration Doubts, questions as SDP plans big comeback