The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of withholding sensitive election materials including result sheets. The Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan, said in a statement on Friday that result sheets were allegedly being withheld in order to write “fictitious results” for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates in the affected states. The PDP Spokesman said the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu should not allow himself to be used by the ruling party to derail the 2019 general election. “Intelligence at our disposal shows that certain compromised INEC officials are working with agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to hold back the material so as to pave way for the allocation of fictitious results for President Muhammadu Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates in the affected states. “For instance, in Abia State, no collation forms and result sheets have been received for the Senatorial elections, while no result sheets for all the elections have been received in Delta and various other states. “Also in Kano State, only 105 Senate result sheets have been received in Garko Local Government Area instead of 144. Rogo LGA has received 106 Senate result sheets instead of 141; Danbatta has received 28 cartons of House of Representatives ballot papers instead of 29, while Tofa LGA has received 18 cartons instead of 19. This scenario is playing out in many other states. “The PDP charges the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to immediately release the materials to their respective designated points and cautions that it will never allow anybody to use any means to rig it out in this election. “Prof. Yakubu must note that this serious infraction is already heightening tension and would eventually lead to serious crisis in affected states ahead of the election, if nothing was done to stem the trend,” the PDP said. Re-run elections: Rivers political warlords return to trenches PDP accuses INEC of hoarding election result sheets PDP accuses APC, Presidency of fresh plot to rig in Kano, Lagos, 14 other states