The President of Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, has said the group is still discussing with the CBN on making BDCs International Money Transfer Operators’ (IMTOs) direct agents after the regulator approved additional agents for the country. “Partly, the complaint of CBN is whether the BDCs have the right infrastructure in place. The IMTOs looked at that criterion too. They want to know if BDCs have internet, computers, and scanners to capture their transactions. And all our members here today have put those structures in place. And there is about $24 billion that come into Nigeria annually from the Diaspora”, Alhaji Gwadabe said in a statement. He said the CBN only captures six per cent of this Diaspora remittances and the rest goes under the counter without any tracing. “And the BDCs with our number of 4,500, (only China has 1,500 in the world), we are actually the best to utilize the inflow of IMTOs. They are about 60 now, and we are still pushing to the CBN, letting them know that we can do it and the full automation of BDCs’ operations launched today is another milestone and proof that we are ready to play that role in the interest of the economy,” he stated. Gwadabe said forex business is a live business that has direct impact on the economy and livelihood of every family. According to him, the BDCs have unified the street rate and the official BDC rate. “We are talking of N358 to dollar official rate and even N360 to the dollar, which is the benchmark of the CBN. So, I congratulate our members and we are celebrating ourselves and that’s why we are coming with IT to ensure we record more successes,’’ he said. He said with this development, the NFIU, EFCC and CBN supervision officials do not need to physically visit BDC offices to look at their books and ascertain the level of compliance, adding that the technology driving the project is cloud-based. Gwadabe said the scheme will enable the BDCs to save cost  and make more money from their operations. He advised: “If you remove compliance, we become enemies of NFIU, CBN and even EFCC. So, operators have to give priority to compliance and following due process in their work. “Remember, the ABCON members are the key drivers of the forex market and their contributions to exchange rate stability are being acknowledged by the regulators, hence the level of quality representation we have seen at today’s event”. He explained that once a BDC operator violates set regulation due to non-compliance, it will adversely affect such operator and could even lead to outright withdrawal of operating license. BDCs back CBN, says allegation of exchange rate racketeering uncharitable CBN may stop sales of forex to BDCs soon ‘CBN, ABCON partnership stabilises naira despite campaign spendings’