A member of the Bauchi State House of Assembly Honourable Maryam Bagel has called on electorate in the North East to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari to complete the development projects he started in the zone and other parts of the country. The law maker, who is also the national treasurer of Presidential Support  Committee (PSC) made the call at a sensitization workshop organized for Buhari support groups drawn from various parts of Bauchi state on the achievements recorded by the Buhari administration. Bagel said that President Buhari has done a lot for the North East region in the last three-and-a-half years. According to her, the president has started oil exploration project in Bauchi state, signed North East Development Commission bill, revival of Railways and power transmission projects in the north eastern part of the country. She further noted that thousands have been enrolled  in N-power program, school feeding programme and other components of Social Investment Programmes (SIPs). “People have seen tangible things that they can put their hands on. I believe that people will not want to see that all these developments have ended in just four years,” she said. Bagel noted that the  workshop was organized to enlighten Buhari supports groups and volunteers on the state on his achievements so they could pass to others during campaigns. Similarly, a group, Students Movement for the Actualization of Buhari 2019, has endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari and other All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearers in the North east in the 2019 general elections. The group made the position at a solidarity rally held in Bauchi. Speaking, the National President of the group, Comrade Abdullahi Yunusa Sangei said that students in the Northeast have decided to mobilize support for President Buhari because of his leadership qualities and his achievements in the area of security, education, agriculture, youth empowerment amongst others. In his address, the Grand Patron of the group, Barrister Sa’id Aliyu Sangei urged the students Northeast region to emulate the leadership qualities of President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, the president has demonstrated qualities of integrity, honesty and credibility throughout his life in all the positions and offices he occupied.  Bauchi golfers top President Buhari golf tourney North East awards “North East owes President Buhari re-election," says APC chieftains Bauchi govt donates land to boost NAF’s capacity