A senior lawyer, Joe Agi (SAN) has explained how he convinced the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen to open a domiciliary account with $30,000 initial deposit. Agi in a statement yesterday said in 2009 he convinced Onnoghen “to open a domiciliary account instead of travelling with cash from Nigeria to abroad on seminars, holidays, conferences or medical trips.” He said the then Supreme Court justice had no idea since the opening of a foreign account was forbidden for public officers. But he informed him that domiciliary account is not a foreign bank account as it is opened and operated within the local banks in Nigeria. Agi was on February 9 reportedly questioned by the EFCC after the sum of $30,000 transfer was traced from his bank account to the suspended CJN’s bank in 2009 on allegations it was a bribe to compromise the $3.18 billion Paris Club refund case he helped secure for some local governments in Nigeria. “Now 10 years after, I am again being vilified and accused of giving Justice Onnoghen bribe. If I may ask; bribe for which case? In the Supreme Court panel, they sit in five or seven persons, was the $30,000 for the five of seven justices? This is another huge joke aimed at vilifying my person by the same cabal who are hell-bent on tarnishing my image as an aftermath of the exposure of the Paris Club fraud,” the SAN said. “Is it a crime for judges to have friends or acquaintances? I challenge the Attorney General Malami, SAN and the EFCC to come forward with their proof that the $30,000 Onnoghen sent me to deposit for him 10 years ago was as a result of bribery. I challenge them to come out openly on the real reason why they are out to tarnish my image. They should be bold enough to open up rather than hiding under the guise of the fight against corruption as a smokescreen to lunch a smear campaign against my person.” Why I paid $30,000 into Onnoghen’s Account — SAN Non-declaration of assets: Chief Justice Onnoghen goes on trial tomorrow CCT: Non-declaration of asset a mistake, funds are from my estacodes - CJN Onnoghen