The family of the opposition spokesperson Alhaji Buba Galadima yesterday said they have received a letter purportedly written by him from an undisclosed location. Galadima, a spokesperson of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party Atiku Abubakar, was reportedly arrested at the weekend by a Directorate of State Security (DSS). His wife, Hajiya Fanna Galadima yesterday told Daily Trust that they received a handwritten letter at about 6 am, signed by her husband with assurances of his good health. Also speaking to our reporter who visited the Wuse II Abuja residence of the Galadimas, his son Dr Shettima Galadima, said the letter was brought to the gate of the house by an unidentified person. They said, Buba Galadima in the letter told them not to be apprehensive. The family said their breadwinner, didn’t however, disclose his whereabouts in the letter. Explaining how her husband was arrested, Hajiya Fanna said an unmarked vehicle was noticed patrolling up and down their street, before parking very close to the gate of their house. She said shortly after her husband drove out of the house, she received a message that he has been arrested. She complained that despite the assurances in his letter, the family is still concerned that the whereabouts of her Galadima remained unknown. The spokesperson of the DSS, Peter Afunanya, however, denied that he was arrested by the secret agency. Also contacted, the spokesperson of the Nigeria Police Force, Assistant Commissioner of Police (DCP) Frank Mba said the police are not aware of Galadima’s arrest. Galadima was reportedly whisked away by hooded men in Abuja on Sunday, barely 24 hours after the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The spokesperson for the Buhari Campaign Organisation, Festus Keyamo, in a statement on Sunday called for the arrest of Galadima, accusing him of plans to “release fake presidential result ahead of INEC.” I wrote memo that produced Osinbajo as VP – Buba Galadima ''Buhari was against forming alliance with Tinubu'' Buba Galadima loses wife, brother