Mrs.  Ladi Mustapha Mohammed, an Internally Displaced Person (IDP) was pushed out of her home in Shehuri in Borno state by Boko Haram insurgents. She was forced to relocate to Bama when insurgents took over her community. All hope was lost until she was picked among many other IDPs to undergo technical and mechanical training at the Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN) Learning Centre, Kaduna. Ladi and her colleagues were given a one year training  on the repairs and maintenance of the Peugeot car engines, bodyworks and paintings, among others. They were also given start-up packs in line with what they learnt, to enable them set up their own businesses in their respective communities. Speaking after her graduation, Ladi said that she would use the knowledge she has acquired to assist herself and others. She expressed gratitude to the United Nations Development Fund for providing the necessary logistics to ensure her training. The story was not different for Gambo Malate, another graduate of the school. The Gombe state indigene, who received training in Mechanical Mechateonics said she was going back to her home town fully prepared to open her workshop. She said she was not scared of what is largely termed a male-dominated trade. “I am going to defeat all odds to show the world that what a man can do, a woman can do even better.” Speaking at the graduation ceremony the UNDP Representative, Ms. Khardiata Lo Ndiaye said, governments, particularly those in the North East, must tackle the challenge of IDPs head on and invest robustly in standard technical and vocational facilities for the benefit of the young women and men in the region. “These young women and men that are graduating today are a good testimony to champion that cause and lay the foundation for a more prosperous future for young women and men in the North East. No skill that provides livelihoods for individuals, families and render services needed by society should be undermined,” she said. She said that UNDP and its partners have increased their investments in construction and rehabilitation of the training facilities in the North East, providing  modern equipment, and training more women and youth in various lifelong skills. “As I speak, another set of 750 IDPs, 50 per cent of whom are women, have commenced training in four institutions/facilities to acquire skills in 20 trades on 1st February, 2019.” She congratulated the graduates, 20 of whom are women, noting that they will henceforth be sources of hope and inspiration, not only to the people in the North East, but to all those who will hear about the stories of the journey of their lives, as well as, those who will benefit from their services and benevolence in one way or the other in the years ahead. “I implore you, the graduates, to explore the opportunity of partnering with one another to form business clusters to foster rapid development and expansion of your  businesses, as well as, take advantage of partnership in business management.” The Managing Director, PAN, Mr. Ibrahim Boyi, urged the graduates to use the skills they have acquired to change not only their lives and those of their families but also the lives of other people in their respective communities. He advised them to form groups with different skills in order to make the desired impact in the society. “We will assess the impact of the programme in your communities because out of our 1253 graduates, 99 per cent have started their own businesses and are now employers of labour. “We do not just want to train people, we want to make them successful in life and one of our key objectives is to see that we deliver and train people as well as improve the skills of young people.” The Director General of the centre, Mrs. Elizabeth O. Mordi  said 98 per cent of the graduates were fully established across the country contributing positively to the nation’s economy. She said that 10 ladies, who were trained in the auto mechanical and mechatronics as well as panel beating are among the graduating students. Seventy-eight IDP’s drawn from Adamawa, Borno, Yobe and Gombe states received the training.  We are in danger, female IDPs raise alarm in Abuja camps Bama IDPs thank UNHCR, government on skills acquisition 34 widows empowered in Nasarawa IDP camp