Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello, has denied making inflammatory comments aimed at denigrating and insulting the sensibilities as well as political values of the Igala nation. Bello was reacting to a trending post on social media where he was quoted as saying that an average Igala person could be easily bought over, saying that with just N6,000, an Igala man can even sell his wife and daughters. The governor who was speaking in his office in Lokoja on Wednesday when he hosted all the First Class Chiefs from Igalaland, led by the Attah Igala, His Royal Majesty, Dr. Michael Idakwo Ameh Oboni, described the said post as handiwork of those who are bent on destabilizing peace of the state and dividing the people along ethnic lines. “The statement is incredibly bigoted, insensitive, insulting, and instigating. I did not make it and I could not have made it because it offends my values and worldview. I am disgusted that anyone would not only think it up, but go ahead to ascribe it to me. “Our citizens can rest assured that we know those behind this latest attack on the peace of our State. I urge Kogites to ignore the current failed attempt to disunite us by the agents of destabilisation,” Bello said. Responding, the Attah Igala, noted that it was sad people now capitalise on technological advancements to spread fake news capable of causing confusion in the society. Attah, who described the governor as a bridge builder and lover of the Igala nation, noted that the Ebiras and Igalas have long history of relationship spanning over 200 years. He urged the governor to remain steadfast and should not be swayed by the antics of some “desperate politicians” who would want to get to any level to further their political cause. On his part, the Ejeh Olamaboro, Chief Simeon Ujah, described the development as “bad politics” and urged the government to ensure those behind the spread of such fake news were brought to book. Also speaking, the Onu Ibaji, Chief John Egwemi, said the governor couldn’t have made such damaging and inciting statement against the Igala nation. He described him as a “jinx breaker” for being the first Governor ever in the state to choose his Chief of Staff from another ethnic group -Igala- other than where he hails from (Ebiraland). Other traditional rulers who spoke lauded the governor for his efforts in bringing development to Igalaland, particularly in the areas of road infrastructures. What political alignment will deliver Kogi State in 2012? Abubakar Audu’s death: a spiritual interpretation Page 50