* says President Buhari will win fair and square The minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s integrity and sterling performance would speak for him as Nigerians vote in Saturday’s presidential polls. Fielding questions from journalists at the official unveiling of the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO) on Wednesday in Asaba, Delta state, the minister said President Buhari would never support or encourage anybody to rig in the coming elections.  He stressed that President Buhari’s disposition necessitated the efforts thousands of pro-PMB re-election support groups under the BSO are putting to ensure that the president is re-elected. While commending the leadership of BSO-Delta, he charged the Buhari supporters to ensure success at the polls across the state, by working hard to engage people and tell them why the President should be re-elected. Recounting the achievements of the Buhari-led administration, he said the APC government is responsible for the prevailing peace in the Niger Delta which has led to the increase in oil production and revenue to the country, assuring that the Federal Government will continue to maintain the Amnesty programme in the Niger Delta. He further said that the Federal Government has made impressive mark on the economy, agriculture, security, transportation and roads infrastructure among others.  In the oil and gas sector, he said this administration currently has reduced gas flare from the 35 percent level it met in 2015 to 17 percent, adding that modalities have been put in place to exit gas flare by 2020. Moreover, he said under the current administration, government for the first time, attracted over N1.5 trillion from oil royalties and N1. 3 trillion from licensing in the oil sector. In his remarks, Delta State Deputy Coordinator of BSO and the state’s coordinator of the Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, Chief Emma Ejiofor, restated the President’s integrity as the unique selling mantra of the group, while also commending the minister for his commitment to the President’s re-election. Shortly after the inauguration, the Delta BSO members embarked on a road-show on major roads in Asaba for President Buhari. Buhari's re-election now a national movement - Delta BSO Fulani youths endorse Buhari Of Kachikwu and Baru