Alhaji Mustapha Aleh is the Chairman of Katagum Youth for Change, a foremost youth organisation campaigning for the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar of Bauchi State. In this interview, he speaks on the achievements of the All Progressives Congress (APC)administration in the state and the general elections. Excerpts: Daily Trust: The 2019 polls are around the corner, amid anxiety of a growing support for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Observers say poll results from Bauchi State and the North-East will be radically different from what obtained in 2015. How prepared is your party? Mustapha Aleh: Well, I don’t see the scenario you have painted playing out in Bauchi State and the North-East. What I know is that the PDP is a political party that was once given the opportunity to superintend the affairs of this state and the country at large but failed to do so. So the PDP is a political party that we in the ruling APC are very familiar with. And don’t forget that the PDP is the same party we defeated in the 2015 general election. So, if you ask me, I will say that the PDP as presently constituted in Bauchi State does not in any way pose a threat to the chances of the APC and Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar. Members of the PDP are people we have defeated in previous elections and we will defeat them again at this round of elections. DT: Many believe that the ruling party has lost the goodwill and trust of the voters unlike in 2015. There are fears that this development will rub-off negatively on serving governors and legislators who rode to power on Buhari’s popularity. What is your take on this? Aleh: Honestly, I prefer that whoever is making such analyses should base them on concrete evidence and not on mere conjectures. Elections are not won through hypotheses that are formed on speculations, rather, party faithful and supporters vote their preferred candidates based on evidence that is on the ground. For instance, the good people of Bauchi State voted for the APC in 2015 because of the credibility of President Buhari and the promises made by Governor Abubakar on the soapbox. The electorate in Bauchi have so far been proven right. The ruling party has become a household name because the Governor Abubakar’s administration has left development imprints that are difficult to ignore. Our priority areas of education, health, agriculture, infrastructure and social security have seen progressive achievements in the last three and a half years. Since agriculture has been the mainstay of our state economy, our government has keyed into the federal government’s agricultural financing programmes, especially the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, working to make it easy for farmers to borrow funds from commercial banks. These are all the good things that will continue to make APC the preferred choice of the people of Bauchi State. The people of Bauchi State will vote for the APC in all the elections. DT: The recent defection of some aspirants who lost out in the governorship primary election to other political parties is said to have ruffled feathers in the APC. Don’t you think that the development can affect your party’s chances at the polls? Aleh: You see, there is no big organization, anywhere in the world, whether political or otherwise that does not have problems. Our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has got its share of problems. I know some of our party men are not very happy with the outcome of the primaries but a lot of efforts have gone into reconciling and bringing back aggrieved party faithful. I am glad to inform you that these efforts are already yielding fruits. But let me also say that the party expects that all those who lost out in the primaries will accept the will of God since in any contest, there can be only one winner. But beyond fence-mending, I insist that our major selling point is the fact that we have performed well in all the key sectors of the economy. Our healthcare delivery services are among the best. In the last three and a half years, we have been proving free medical services for children under five, pregnant women and even several days post-delivery and the aged over 70 years. We have done so much and therefore I have no doubt that we will sweep the upcoming polls. DT: How are Governor Abubakar and the state chapter of the APC managing the discontent that now pervades the party, in view of the fact that some key members of the party, Dr. Ibrahim Yakubu Lame and Capt. Bala Jibrin have insisted on remaining in the party and ensuring that the governor is defeated? Aleh: This question has already been addressed by the governor himself. His immediate reaction to the perceived disagreement in the party is that the development will not change anything; both in terms of their relationship and the fortunes of the APC at the upcoming polls. But having said that, let me re-iterate that Bauchi is an APC state and that nothing will change that. Suffice it to say also that the party has a formidable structure; the type that no any other party has. Our presence is felt in all the 212 wards in the state. An instant revelation is the presence of hundreds of life-changing projects spread across the nooks and crannies of the state. Now, tell me why APC won’t win elections? In terms of reaching out, in terms of creating and sustaining relationships that would translate into electoral victory for the APC at the state level and even for President Buhari, there is no governor in Nigeria that can beat Abubakar’s record. And I stand to be controverted. For instance, there is no governor who has mobilized and canvassed for votes for President Buhari than the governor of Bauchi State. It is on record that he is the first governor to pull all former governors of the state since 1999 into the All Progressives Congress (APC) fold so they can work for the re-election of President Buhari. Before then, Governor Abubakar wooed the Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Babayo Gamawa and a former PDP die-hard and member of the party’s Board of Trustees, Alhaji Kaulaha Aliyu, to the APC. If you add the fact that he led the founding members of the People’s Democratic Movement (PDM), the oldest political group in Nigeria, and the dominant group that formed what is today known as the PDP to pay allegiance to President Buhari, then one cannot but crown Governor Abubakar as President Buhari’s chief canvasser in the North-East. ‘Gov Abubakar’ll beat PDP gov’ship candidate in Bauchi’ #2019Election Buhari basking in popularity, Atiku on affinity in Bauchi 2019: NNPP is ‘stealing the show’ in Bauchi