From the emerging scenario, the presidential election will be a keen contest between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kebbi State.  Kebbi is seen largely as a Buhari State because majority of people are ardent supporters of the president and the APC. Their support and love for Buhari is not far from the perception that he is honest. Besides, his government’s policy that boosts agricultural activities in the state is another factor working in his favour. In the last presidential election, though kebbi was being controlled by a PDP administration, it was one of the states where President Buhari got outstanding votes to win the election against former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015. Banking on this fact and his popularity in the state, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has consistently vowed to deliver Kebbi back to Buhari in the February 16 presidential election. During one of his political outings, Governor Bagudu said the president would get the highest votes among the north west states from Kebbi State in the coming election. He boasted that the presidential election would be a sweet win for the APC in Kebbi State. The governor said the feat would be easy to achieve because all notable political figures, academia, business men and women, various professional associations, artisans and others had decided to work for the APC. “A good number of former ministers and top PDP personalities like Buhari Bala,  Samaila Sambawa, former PDP governor  in the state, Usman Dakingari and his deputy, Alhaji K.  Aliyu,  Dr Ali Bala and a host of others have joined the APC.  We derived our strength in the unity that is currently happening in Kebbi. Every known Kebbi personality is now in the APC. Even the artisans and other segments of the society are now with us. Kebbi is APC state and it will deliver the highest number of votes for President Buhari in the presidential election,” the governor said. The APC expects that voters in Kebbi will cast their votes for President Buhari because he flagged off the N14bn Anchor Borrowers agricultural programme in the state in 2016.  More than 400,000 farmers were said to have benefitted from the agriculture soft loan program on dry season rice and wheat farming in the state.  Already, Governor Bagudu enjoys popularity in the state due to the agricultural revolution the anchor borrowers scheme has brought to Kebbi State. The governor is using it as a political weapon for Buhari’s re-election campaign. Among the teeming supporters of the APC in the state, he is fondly called Sarkin Noma Nigeria (the king of farming in Nigeria). Many songs have been released by various musicians in Kebbi and Kano on his agricultural activities and achievements. They have been adopted as the campaign songs of the party at the governorship/presidential APC rallies. However, last week’s visit of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to Kebbi State has left many people in doubt as to whether President Buhari can truly enjoy an easy win in the state on February 16. Though the PDP has not shown any seriousness to reclaim power in Kebbi State since it lost to the APC over three years ago, the strength and determination being exhibited in recent time by the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Isa Galaudu, during the PDP rallies might be something the APC needs to worry about. The mammoth crowd that thronged the Alieru Abdul Stadium when the PDP presidential flag bearer came to Kebbi shocked many political watchers and APC supporters in the state. This has since erased the impression that the ruling party might just have a smooth victory. The APC state publicity secretary, Alhaji Sani Dododo, however, told journalists during a press conference at the Cabinet Office in Birnin Kebbi days after the PDP presidential campaign rally that the huge crowd was nothing for the ruling party to worry about. Dododo said the personalities that accompanied Atiku to Kebbi just engaged in a campaign of calumny against Buhari and Governor Bagudu. “What they are even using to campaign against Buhari and Bagudu do not even exist in Kebbi State. We don’t have hunger here. People know we are number one in agricultural activities in Nigeria. So, how can we be hungry in Kebbi?” Because of inactivity in the PDP over the last two years, not many thought the party could pose any serious challenge to the ruling APC. But from the unfolding events, it appears the party has risen from its slumber and set to give the ruling party the run for its money in the coming elections in the state. The PDP, according to some political watchers in the state, has gained strength and benefitted from the fallout of the crisis that greeted the outcome the APC primaries in some local government areas. Many of the aggrieved aspirants that were denied the opportunity to contest in the APC at Maiyama, Dakingari, Zuru,  Bunza and other areas of the state were given tickets by the PDP to contest for various positions in the coming elections. The PDP governorship candidate, Senator  Galaudu, the senatorial candidate for Kebbi Central, Abubakar Shehu (Abu GEDA) and other candidates vying for the elections on the platform of the party were said to be taking their campaigns  to the people, particularly in the rural communities. The state PDP chairman, Haruna Saidu,  during one of the campaigns at Dakingari, said “We are overwhelmed and happy with the reception and commitment people are giving us in all the local governments we have gone to. It’s a clear testimony of our victory in the coming elections.” According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Kebbi State,  1,771,224 voters had been registered for the 2019 elections in the state. 1.5m were said to have been registered earlier with additional 271,224. Out of this figure, 77,448 are yet to collect their permanent voter’s cards (PVCs). According to available record, Buhari got 558,000 votes in the last presidential election in Kebbi State. If the scenario played out on February 16 as the APC had predicted, a landslide victory for Buhari in the state history might be repeating itself. But the PDP does not seem to be leaving anything to chance as it is poised to give the APC a keen contest in the coming elections in Kebbi State. Many factors at stake in Sokoto Kebbi PDP Secretary defects to APC Those who want Bagudu’s job in Kebbi