* Two PDP lawmakers join APC at Ekiti rally President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday confirmed that fighting corruption in a nation like Nigeria is not an easy task. He made the confession while addressing mammoth crowd of party supporters at Ekiti Parapo pavilion in Ado Ekiti during his presidential campaign rally to Ekiti state. Buhari, however, said in spite of the herculean task, he would never be dissuaded to rid the nation of graft in line with the promise he made in 2015 to banish corruption in the land. “We are fighting corruption but it has not been easy. But we told the security agencies to keep tab on those on our watching list and ensure that no stone is left unturned to ensuring that those who have cases to answer does not escape justice. “As part of our promises, we are building roads, rail lines, and fighting corruption. We introduced Treasury Single Account and increase power supply, so Nigerians can have their own businesses,” the president said. Also speaking, Prof. Osinbajo condemned the extravagance spending of the PDP during its 16 years rule. He said “a sum of $383 billion was got from oil between 2010 and 2014 under Dr Goodluck Jonathan but achieved nothing for the country.” In his remark, the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, said it would be a big mistake if Nigerians elect the PDP presidential candidate, Abubakar Atiku in the February 16 poll. Also, Fayemi promised that the state will get 90 percent of the votes that would be cast on February 16 for President Buhari. “The government is planning to dualise Ado-Akure road, complete the federal housing units, the federal secretariat and the Lagos-Kano rail line, so we have no option than to return President Buhari, because Ekiti people are progressives. ” At the rally were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Ibikule Amosun (Ogun), former All Progressives Congress(APC) Interim National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, Mr. Olusola Oke, among others. Also two members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly and chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) dumped the party for the All Progressives Congress (APC). The lawmakers who were led by the Speaker, Hon Ebenezer Alagbada were: Honourables Cecelia Dada representing Ilejemeje constituency and Olanrewaju Olayanju from Emure constituency. No to Atiku, Buhari deserves re-election Buhari tasks accountants on anti-corruption fight Buhari: I’ll continue to reposition police, judiciary