The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and “its agents in the Presidency” of planning to load arms and ammunition into vehicles painted in PDP colours. The Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Thursday said the vehicle is to be branded with the party’s colours, slogan and name of its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar; Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Senator Dino Melaye. Ologbondiyan said the plot was to use the arms and ammunition to orchestrate violence ahead of the elections and claim the PDP was responsible for the crisis. “Intelligence at our disposal shows that the APC has contracted some criminal elements to use the vehicles to cause mayhem and pandemonium by firing into gatherings in various parts of the country, after which the ruling party and the agents of Buhari Presidency will blame the attacks on our party and candidates. “The PDP condemns this heinous plot as an extreme act of desperation by the APC in their despondency, after being rejected by the people. “We want all Nigerians to note that the PDP is a party of goodwill and our rallies have demonstrated that we are a people of peace. Our objectives and goals, as laid down by our founding fathers, demonstrate unity, national cohesion and economic prosperity for our nation. “This is the path we have continued to toe in our campaigns, in spite of provocations by the APC and the Buhari Presidency. “The PDP is therefore, alerting Nigerians to take serious note of this plot by the APC, which is tailored to smear the image of our party and candidates, as well as divert public attention from their acts and threats of violence ahead of the 2019 general election. “The PDP urges all Nigerians to continue to be at alert and wary of the APC in its acts of desperation against the resolution by the people to end the Buhari administration and elect a new leadership under Atiku Abubakar, to return good governance, economic prosperity and political tranquillity to our nation, come February 16, 2019,” the PDP said. 2019: APC, presidency jittery over Atiku's emergence – PDP APC, presidency jittery over Atiku’s emergence — PDP Renewed smear campaign against Atiku won’t help you, PDP tells Buhari, APC