“I started my shoes and clothing business called Majdesigns because I have always thought of owning my own empire. While I was young I always thought of working for myself and prayed that one day it becomes reality” said Almustapha Abdulkadir Ja. “It has always been my dream to be an entrepreneur since I was young, so while growing up I did one or two things like selling balloons and sweets. I have always had the desire to create something new and to be financially independent,” he added. The 24 year old graduate of B.Sc Industrial Chemistry from Umaru Musa Yar’adua University Katsina sells foot wears, customized baseball caps and t-shirts for both sexes and also ready-made kaftans for men only. Abdulkadir said he started the business with 20 thousand naira (N20,000) he sourced from his mother. “I decided to be fully committed to business in 2017, that’s when I gave my business the name (majdesigns). Seeing young entrepreneurs striving to be successful inspired me to start this business and aim higher, also the stories of successful business men, such as Aliko Dangote, Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Co, made me want to be up there too” he said. “I sourced my capital from my mother. She actually gave me the money as a loan in order to make me take the business serious. I started with only shoes, I dedicated myself to the business, working hard every day then gradually expanded by making customized products and kaftans and Alhamdulillah I’m now running a successful business,” he said. AbdulKadir notes that the business is lucrative adding that the” turnover is good, the percentage has gone higher last year with an increase of 17 per cent.” The young entrepreneur further noted that the increase was as a result of hard work and determination that he put to the business. He also said he is always willing to learn and create new things and embed new ideas into his business. The young entrepreneur already has four employees. He said he attracts customers to his business through social media and ensures that his products have quality and are unique. Abdulkadir who faced some challenges in the early stages of his business including challenges with delivery, said with time he overcame such challenges and “Everything is going smoothly now adding that with hard work and dedication you can achieve anything”. He urged youths to go into entrepreneurship no matter how small their capital is stressing that “you can achieve a lot with ideas, creativity and hard work. It’s only too late if you don’t start, you just need to start and dream big”.  ‘Being close to my oven is all I need to get inspired’ My dream is to build the best branding firm, says Buhari Abuja’s disabled join FCT’s army of entrepreneurs