The All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate for Kwara South yesterday escaped assassination attempt by some political thugs, as two supporters died instantly from the shooting. The APC in Kwara state had on Tuesday alleged that two of its members were shot dead by political thugs allegedly from the PDP during a senatorial campaign tour in Ojoku, Oyun local government area of the state. Oyun is the home town of Senator Rafiu Ibrahim, who is also the PDP senatorial candidate of the Kwara South in this Saturday’s National Assembly election. The attackers were also said to have injured about eight APC members and vandalized about twenty vehicles belonging to the APC Kwara South senatorial candidate, Lola Ashiru during his campaign tour of Ojoku on Tuesday evening. However, the PDP claimed that the APC thugs were the first to attack its members with no fewer than six persons sustaining bullet wounds while the shooting lasted. Addressing reporters in Ilorin on Wednesday, the state APC chairman, Hon Bashir Bolarinwa, confirmed the attack on Hon. Ashiru. “We are using this occasion to call on the security agencies to immediately arrest all the perpetrators of yesterday’s violence at Ojoku and bring them to justice. “We are also reiterating our earlier call on the security agencies to immediately arrest all known thugs and other criminals across our state so that they will not disrupt Saturday’s elections and the subsequent ones,” he said. Also speaking, the Director General of Lola Ashiru Campaign Organisation, Femi Whyte, told reporters in Offa, Offa local government area of the state, that “Three persons reported to be missing have been found, but not in stable condition, probably due to the psychological effect of the attack.” Mr. Whyte gave the name of one of the dead as Samson Adeosun, whom he said died on reaching the General Hospital Offa. 4 women, 12 others contest senate seat with Saraki PDP, APC trade blame over violence in Ilorin APC candidates affirmed by tribunal in Kwara