A non-governmental organization, Search for Common Ground (SCG) Nigeria in collaboration with United Nations Women have trained and supported 300 women Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from Jere and Mafa local government areas of Borno state on rice parboiling techniques. The Programme Coordinator, UN Women, in the Northeast, Lilian Unaegbu speaking during the graduation ceremony in Maiduguri said the training was aimed at protecting the vulnerability of the women staying in IDP camps. She said most of the participants were chosen from Mafa and Jere local government areas in view of the fact that they are the major rice producing areas in the state. “We selected them based on their plight. Many of them don’t have husbands as a results of this crisis so, we hope the project will boost their income to enable them cater for their needs,” Unaegbu said. “The parboiling techniques they received training on is different from what they knew before. This particular training is about knowledge and skills to help them process the rice to high quality for higher demand. “We also have provided starter packs to the beneficiaries to assist them in starting rice business, most especially, in rice processing. In her remarks the Project Manager for Search for Common Ground, Mrs Tamwakat Golit urged the beneficiaries to make use of the training they receive to become self-reliant. “Today, a total of 300 women vulnerable got empowered after they graduated from training on how to improve rice processing. “All the trainees were given starter packs so that it will enable them to participate in dry seasons farming. I will like to urge them all to make use of this unique opportunity,” she said. Golit said the association would work closely with the Borno Agricultural Development Programme (ADP) to monitor the activities of the women to ensure the sustainability of the programme. In his address the District Head of Mafa, Alhaji Abba Kawu thanked SFCGN and other partners for empowering the women. Alhaji Abba said that the empowerment would go a long way to ameliorate the hardship faced by women and their families brough by Boko Haram insurgency. NGO to empower 2,000 women in rice processing NGO trains 2,000 women on rice parboiling techniques in Yobe, Borno Jigawa women shown new ways of parboiling paddy rice