The incumbent senator representing Kwara South Senatorial district and PDP candidate for this Saturday’s National Assembly election, Senator Ibrahim Rafiu, has reacted to the attack on his home town, Ojoku, during the APC campaign rally to the town yesterday and called on his people to remain calm. He alleged that the thugs who were on the campaign trail of Hon. Lola Ashiru attacked the PDP members, shooting at some of them where no fewer than nine (9) PDP members sustained gunshot injuries and are currently receiving treatment at different hospitals in the town. Narrating the incident, a PDP member from Ojoku, Ibrahim, who was one of the victims of the attack, explained that when Lola Ashiru and members of his campaign team arrived at Ojoku, they started chanting ‘O to ge’ as they moved to the palace of Olojoku of Ojoku. Ibrahim said immediately they stepped out of the palace, hoodlums working for the APC senatorial candidate began to throw stones and other dangerous objects at PDP members in the area, and later shot at some of them. He disclosed that 9 of them sustained gunshot wounds. Speaking on the attack, Senator Rafiu Ibrahim said the armed political thugs were purposely brought to Ojoku to attack PDP members and supporters ahead of the rescheduled polls. After the attack in Ojoku, he said the thugs also went on rampage in Offa, attacking PDP supporters and destroying campaign vehicles and billboards belonging to him (Senator Rafiu). He said “The attack was part of the grand plot of the APC to cause mayhem in different parts of Kwara, so that election in the State could be postponed by INEC. “APC plan is to have a staggered election in Kwara so that they can carry out their planned nefarious acts to rig the exercise. They know they cannot win in any free and fair election in the state”. Senator Rafiu, however, called for calm and urged security agencies to investigate the matter and ensure that culprits are brought to book. He alleged that the APC is hell-bent in plunging the state into crisis. Two die as APC Senatorial candidate escapes assassination in Kwara Senator Rafiu Ibrahim performance threatens contenders in Kwara south 4 women, 12 others contest senate seat with Saraki