Mrs. Titi Atiku-Abubakar, wife of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar on Wednesday said the election of her husband would unite the country. She described him as a detribalised Nigerian not given to bigotry or nepotism, saying if elected, Atiku would run an all-inclusive government to create opportunities for all segments of the society, especially youths and women. Mrs. Atiku spoke in Lagos while addressing stakeholders of the PDP in the state. Urging Nigerians to reject the All Progressives Congress (APC), she insisted that citizens were better off in the 16 years of PDP than the last three years of the present government. Prominent PDP faithful led by the former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George, attended the interactive session. The PDP governorship candidate in Lagos state, Jimi Agbaje and his running mate, Haleemat Busari, as well as the former Governor of Ogun state, Otunba Gbenga Daniel received her. Atiku Abubakar’s wife said her husband has the capacity to reposition the country, saying he would bring his private sector’s experience to bear to reform the economy. She said, “Atiku is what Nigeria needs right now to move her forward. My husband is experienced and he has the capacity to improve the fortunes of the country. “He is an educationist, a philanthropist, a businessman and a lover of the masses. Atiku is committed to a new Nigeria. “Atiku knows the youths and the women of this country are suffering and he wants to put an end to all the sufferings. “Atiku cares about young people and women and he will create opportunities to make their lives better. “For the women, he said he is going to give us 30 percent in his cabinet and that he is going to give the youths 40 percent. “Our youths are jobless, our ladies are roaming the streets, everywhere you go, what you see is suffering and this must come to an end”. A former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Bode George, urged Nigerians to access their present status before casting their vote. “If you are in Nigeria from age 18 and above, ask yourself before voting whether you are better off today than before. “If you are better, then vote for APC but if you are not then you need to vote for a reliable alternative which is PDP”. He warned that the will of the people should prevail in the election, saying any attempt to undermine the people’s choice could precipitate crisis. “I am saying this because I don’t want the repeat of what happened in 1963. “If they don’t do it properly, the rest of the world is watching, Nigeria is already a lamp that the rest of Africa is watching so we cannot avoid to do what is undemocratic”, he added. Atiku will liberate Nigeria if elected, says Titi Abubakar 2019: It’s not about Nigerian’s money Kick out APC, Atiku’s wife tells Benue women