Three hundred women and youths were yesterday given N10,000 interest free loan  each by National Directorate of Employment (NDE) in Jalingo, Taraba state under the directorate’s micro Enterprise enhancement scheme. Director General  of NDE, Nasir Mohammed Ladan Argungu, while flagging -off empowerment of 10,000 persons  presented the cash to the beneficiaries. He said the empowerment programme was going on nation-wide and was aimed at enabling the beneficiaries run a productive and functional life. The Director – General , who was represented by Deputy Director, Information and Public Relation of the Directorate, Mallam Lawal Musa, further stated that employment was very vital for individual and national development “The soft loan given to you is intended to enable you run a functional and productive life as well as to promote financial inclusion among Nigerians and women and youths in particular,” he said. He said employment was a platform for supporting and fulfilling individual’s purpose and family goals which contribute to the productive and vibrancy of local and national economy. The Director – General said that the emerging global unemployment challenge which has caused grievous consequences on the society needed to be confronted through various programmes to reduce unemployment rate among young Nigerians. “Employment generation has, therefore, become a factor of paramount importance to national development agenda and the present administration is doing its best to support and sustain various programmes under the Directorate,’’  he said. “The NDE management has been actively collaborating with key actors in private and public sectors, by enhancing frameworks, building partnerships, augmenting capacities, filling gaps and promoting synergy among all humanitarian and development actors, engaged in the development generation and poverty reduction.” He urged the beneficiaries of the loan to exploit the gesture for “self-reliance and wealth creation as the country matches towards social security and rapid national development.” The State Coordinator, Mr. Aderemi Abdulrasaq Adebisi, said the NDE, as a federal government agency saddled with the responsibility of job creation, has always been at the forefront of searching into potentially viable and profitable self-reliant endeavours. He disclosed that the NDE in Taraba had mobilised 2,000 trainees from the 16 local government areas who received training in various trades like catering, hairdressing, tailoring, beads making, G.S.M repairs, auto electrical and electronics.  Aisha Buhari empowers 11,600 women, youth in Akwa Ibom FG to address unemployment, others with N25bn agribusiness loans Unemployment: NDE trains  100 youths in vocational skills