The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to pull out of the 2019 presidential peace pact signed in the last quota of last year under the watch of the Abdulsalami Abubakar National Peace Committee. The party said it would do so following due consideration of comments, threats and incendiary actions by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Buhari Presidency, which it said are directly inimical to a peaceful, free and fair election. The Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan told newsmen at a press conference Wednesday in Abuja, that if no action was immediately taken by the peace panel, the party would withdraw its signatory from the pact. The PDP also called on international authorities to impose travel ban on Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State for allegedly saying on a national television that members of the international community working for a peaceful election in Nigeria would return to their countries in body bags. He also stated that there is a plot to redeploy, a former Chief Security Officer to APC leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, CP Kayode Egbetokun, as Kwara State Commissioner of Police,  with the  ” instruction to incite the people, cause pandemonium and pave the way for outright rigging in favour of President Buhari and all other candidates on the platform of APC”. “It is necessary to state that the PDP is a party of peace and we are committed to the peace accord. However, the deployment of the Kayode Egbetokun as Kwara CP directly negates the principle of the Peace Accord and can only hurt the fragile peace that currently exists in Kwara State. “Very importantly, the PDP calls on the National Peace Committee to note the infractions by the APC and its leaders to the peace accord, including the provocative shut down of all the stadia in Kano State by the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, in order to frustrate the PDP Presidential campaign rallies in the state. “We therefore call on the National Peace Committee to immediately summon el-Rufai on his inflammatory remarks against peaceful election in our country. “The PDP hold that any situation that seeks to allow the APC to abuse the tenets of the accord will definitely force our party to review our signatory to the peace process. In that regard, we might have no option left than to allow our members to defend their votes with whatever that is available to them,” the PDP said. 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord Atiku’s assent to peace pact afterthought – BMO Atiku signs 2019 peace deal, asks Buhari to sign electoral bill