Boko Haram insurgents Tuesday night ambushed six vehicles in Governor Kashim Shettima’s convoy along the road to a border town of Gamboru, headquarters of Ngala Local Government Area of Borno state. Three persons were reportedly killed and scores of others missing. The vehicles were the last part of Shettima’s convoy on their way to a political rally. Details were sketchy yesterday as the governor’s convoy was still being expected back in Maiduguri as of the time of filing this report. Sources told Daily Trust that the insurgents attacked the convoy which was on its way to Ngala. The insurgents, according to other sources, opened fire on the convoy after the governor’s vehicle and few others had passed. Impeccable sources gave the number of those killed as three. “We received the sad reports yesterday that Boko Haram insurgents attacked the last convoy of Governor Shettima, they opened fire on some of our APC supporters, although it didn’t affect Governor Shettima’s vehicles; but those affected are our supporters. “We lost at least three persons and several were injured, many are still missing as I am speaking with you,” a  party faithful confirmed. Borno State Deputy Governor, Usman Mamman Durkwa, told newsmen that he also heard the rumour, but he had not been able to communicate with the governor’s convoy, adding that he was waiting to receive the convoy back. The spokesman for 7 Division of the Nigerian Army Maiduguri, Col. Ado Isa, said military formations around the area of the attack had not sent any report yet. Meanwhile, the insurgents were also said to have seized eight vehicles conveying people, including a permanent secretary, three district heads from Rann, Dikwa and civilian JTF members. The Kala Balge council boss,  Nishad Lawan Musa, told newsmen in Gamboru town that the insurgents also attacked his people and even set his official vehicle and that of his secretary ablaze. A security source told Daily Trust that it had for long been a major concern for Shettima’s security details that the governor had insisted on not using bullet proof vehicles despite the availability of two at the Government House. “The bullet proof vehicles are only used to transport visiting VIPs while in Borno State. It is morally wrong for him as leader of his convoy’s delegation to be driving in bullet proofs while his aides and associates who travel because of him, drive in ordinary vehicles. He feels it is not an act of leadership and he also feels that driving in bullet proof can send panic in the minds of his aides and associates in his convoy”,  the source said. BREAKING: Many feared killed as Boko Haram attack Borno Governor's convoy UPDATED: 3 APC supporters killed, dozens missing after Boko Haram attack Shettima’s convoy Boko Haram kills 30 commuters in Borno