Commercial activities picked up in some parts of Kano metropolis after the postponement the Presidential and National Assembly Elections on Saturday, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. NAN reports that in Tarauni, Kano municipal, Nasarawa and Fage local government areas, people were seen going about with their daily activities. Commercial tricycles, taxis and buses were seen conveying passengers to different parts of the state, while petrol stations in some areas were already open for business.‎ Bala Ali, a vegetable seller in Yankaba perishable items markets in Nasarawa Local Government Area told NAN that he opened his shop after hearing of the election postponement in a local radio. He expressed the hope that the postponement would enable the commission to address some of the challenges. ‎In Fage Local Government Area, the situation was the same, normal activities resumed as tailors, shops owners and barbing/hair dressing saloons opened for business.
‎
Malam Tanimu Bako, a tailor in Fage also lamented the postponement, saying that the situation had demoralised his spirit. “I am not happy with this development, but I hope and p‎ray for a credible, peaceful election next week that will be acceptable to all,” he added. Labaran Kwaru, a soft drinks dealer in Kano city also said that he opened for business in the afternoon in spite of hearing the news early in the morning. Kwaru, who lamented the postponement, also said that it was not the first time election was postponed in the county.
‎
“This is not the first time election will be postponed in Nigeria the 2011 election was postponed when people were already casting their votes. In 2015, election was postponed by six weeks also,” Kwaru said. “So, let’s just pray for a peaceful and credible polls because I know INEC will do it,” he added. NAN also reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had shifted the Feb. 16 Presidential and National Assembly elections to Feb. 23. ‎The commission also postponed the Governorship and House of Assembly elections from March 2 to March 9. The Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu attributed the postponement of all the scheduled elections to logistic and operational problems.‎ (NAN) Financial experts lament polls postponement Election Postponement: Activities picking up in Katsina Election: Residents defy ban on movement as polls open in Kebbi