Aggrieved Atiku Support Group Coalition has officially dumped its support for Atiku Abubakar presidential ambition and formally endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid come February 16, 2019. The spokesman for the coalition, which comprises over 145 organisations, Comrade Bello Osaretin Godspower, disclosed this on Sunday in Abuja at an occasion attended by the Chairman of the Central Working Committee (CWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Women and Youths Presidential Campaign Team (AWYPCT), Brigadier General Buba Marwa (rtd). Godspower said their action was borne out of Atiku Abubakar’s disdainful treatment of support groups that snow-balled into neglect, nepotic deployment, use and dump style coupled with lack of direction and reward management system made worse by the infusion and infiltration of people with questionable characters into his campaign train. He said the decision was taken on November 27, 2018 after a robust and convincing consultation with relevant stakeholders. Godspower directed all their members across Nigeria to vote en masse for President Buhari to enable him continue and consolidate on the good work. On why they decided to back the APC presidential candidate, he said, “Our decision to formally declare support for President Buhari re-election is for national interest and his ability to rejig the governance system hitherto filled with corruption activities under the sixteen years misrule of PDP government, where corruption became the norms and symbols of state. “It is instructive to assert or pontificate that the fight against corruption that has been identified as major problem of previous government is being well fought under President Buhari with global acknowledgement. “We are glad to appreciate the good work of Mr. President and today, the roads are working, the rails are back on track, the agricultural sector which is the instrument of diversification is on course and the farmers can now smile to the banks, the social intervention policy i.e the N-Power Programme, the School Feeding Programme and the Tradermoni Programme are being well implemented with due diligence coupled with uncountable infrastructural development that are scattered across the country, especially in the power sector. “Therefore, we cannot afford to stand akimbo and aloof in the political space to allow rascals, hooligans and economic thieves who are professionally hollow, delinquent in leadership panache, nomadic in character and content to hold sway in the governance of Nigeria once again. “Today, we are proud to say without further ado that Nigeria is work in progress and in safe hands under President Buhari. “The Mohican are quite convinced that the Next Level Policy Document is a compendium of activities to reposition and rescue Nigeria for economic prosperity, political stability and socio-cultural actualities and more so, to help take back Nigeria from the horrendous shackles of political looters and economic saboteurs who are now gathered in one accord with the intention to sell the sole economic life wire of Nigeria i.e the NNPC to cronies, siblings and as well grant amnesty to corrupt persons which has confirmed their mindset to criminally share our common heritage and bring back corruption, if elected. May God forbid.” Retired Brigadier General Marwa, in his remarks, said the votes of the support groups which had joined at the right time would count. He urged them to sell their candidates through the door-to-door campaigns and obtain their permanent voter’s cards (PVCs) to vote for APC from top to bottom and vice versa. He said, “We welcome you as part of the supporters of President Buhari with open hands. This is like a train leaving its station and you are able to catch that train before it goes. “You people have taken the right decision and not a moment sooner. You have come onboard at the right time as your votes of your various organisations will count. “You have agreed to support a person who is impeccable in character, leadership, honesty, patriotism and compassion to Nigerians. This is one leader that is fighting corruption and he has said do as I do and not do as I say. “So, speaking on behalf of the chairperson of the Women and Youth Presidential campaign team, Her Excellency, Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, we are grateful to you all, we acknowledged this show of support. “She specifically said I should pass the message that from here, we will integrate you into organisations that are relevant to your various States, Local governments, Wards and Units and you will go out there to campaign from door-to-door taken full advantage of what you know of the government and performance of President Buhari.” The event was also attended by former deputy governor of Plateau State, Mrs Pauline Tallen, former Inspector General of Police (IGP) Suleiman Abba, and the Director General of Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), Dr Mahmoud Abubakar, among others. Thugs clash with aggrieved Atiku supporters Thugs clash with aggrieved Atiku supporters Renewed smear campaign against Atiku won’t help you, PDP tells Buhari, APC