The Coalition for Democracy and Good Governance has hailed the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai and the Nigerian Army over responsiveness to protecting Nigeria’s democracy and the sovereignty of the country. The group, therefore, called for continuous loyalty amongst troops to constituted authority before, during and after the elections. Addressing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, Emmanuel Itodo, the Executive Director of the group, said since the directive for the military to ruthlessly deal with ballot snatchers it observed that the Nigerian Army has risen to the occasion, particularly in the way it has intensified operations to counter incidents that could have undermined the elections. According to him, “Such calls condemning President Buhari’s directive came from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who even went to the absurd extent of asking the Army to disregard the directive was totally unacceptable to close watchers of events around the county. “We wonder how he would react to the military disregarding his orders if he were the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Benue state governor, Mr. Samuel Ortom, also asked the Army to disregard the President even though the same Army continues to save his state from the self-inflicted violence that has gripped the state. “One can only wonder what the outcome would have been if the Army had gone with his request not to shoot at anyone, even those that are carrying weapons just as would be ballot box snatchers will do. The confidence that the Coalition for Democracy and Good Governance has in the Army and the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, has increased with the way he has handled the situation in which members of the opposition are asking him to politicize the military by siding with them and disregarding the directive from the C-in-C. “Our confidence is informed by the professionalism and apolitical nature of the current Nigerian Army under Lt. General Buratai.  Army to clamp down on IPOB, splinter groups to prevent disruption of election Obey orders, be loyal or resign, Buratai tells officers, soldiers Buratai: We’ll treat electoral saboteurs as enemies of state