In Akwa Ibom State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been in charge of government since Nigeria’s return to democratic rule in 1999, producing governors and contributing overwhelmingly for presidential candidates. However, the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) is testing the waters in the oil rich state this time around.  The mantra that ‘PDP is Akwa Ibom State and Akwa Ibom State is PDP’ resounds across the state to the extent that the party is described as a religion. Any semblance of opposition was therefore crushed, such that opposition parties only existed in name. The party enjoyed popularity and strength of numbers until the defection of Senator Godswill Akpabio to the APC. Akpabio’s defection revived the seemingly dead APC and orchestrated the movement of erstwhile PDP faithful and Akpabio’s loyalists in droves to the party. The exodus of politicians to the APC was not only massive, it crippled the towering strength of the PDP in the state, and jolted the ruling party from slumber to the reality of APC as a formidable threat that must be countered. The PDP had always amassed votes to win elections in the state, and usually voted en bloc for the ruling PDP at the centre. In 2015, former President Goodluck Jonathan who was seeking a second term scored 953, 304 votes while then candidate Muhammadu Buhari scored 58, 411 votes. However, the recent growth of APC in the state has checked that reality as the party (APC) has planted a support base that is currently a threat to the voting capacity of the PDP. Now, with an opposition party ruling at the centre, and the determination of the APC to take over the seat of government in the state in the forthcoming elections, the PDP will be forced to split its votes. To show its determination to make an inroad in Akwa Ibom, the APC launched its presidential campaign in Uyo, where thousands of party faithful from across the country thronged. However, recent political upheavals in the state have witnessed the return of many aggrieved members to the PDP. Though the popularity of the APC has increased the chances of its Presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, who would probably secure more votes from the state, the electorates are determined to cast their votes in favour of the PDP. This stems from the belief that the APC government and President Buhari have nothing to offer them, judging from recent contentious political events in the country and the body language of the president interpreted to mean that government’s decisions are biased against the people of the South-South. The APC ideology on the reliance of ‘federal might’ to win the state’s elections at all cost, the political problems that trailed the defection of Senator Godswill Akpabio; the spiral effect of the State House of Assembly crisis which threatened to turn the state into a war zone and the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the presidential flag bearer of the PDP have differently skewed the support of the electorate in favour of the PDP. In fact, the crowd of supporters that thronged the presidential campaigns of both the PDP and APC has led political analysts to believe that the contest between both candidates would be tough especially if the elections were allowed to be free and fair. They averred that many electorates may dump voting along party lines and vote for individual candidates of their choice despite their party affiliations. Findings show that some electorate may even vote out of sympathy especially, considering the alleged vilifications suffered by Governor Udom Emmanuel in the hands of the opposition. Most people insist that the era of Governor Emmanuel has been peaceful, particularly as he has successfully stopped the security challenges experienced in the troubled Ukanafun and Etim Ekpo local government areas, and checked the activities of political thugs, cultists and hoodlums that threatened the peace of the state. Thus, the electioneering campaigns of the PDP and APC which have witnessed large crowds on both sides have been peaceful, though there have been little skirmishes among supporters. Indeed, both parties are battle ready for the elections and have prepared their supporters by sensitizing them on how to vote and what to expect at the polling units. Most importantly, they ensured their members were duly registered for the elections and have their Permanent Voters’ Card as proof. The PDP went as far as ensuring supporters display their PVCs during rallies. Despite the different strategies employed by the PDP and APC to canvass for votes, both parties have repeatedly preached peace during their rallies and campaigns, and it is hoped that their supporters would adhere to the instructions of their leaders and party for peaceful, free and fair elections. Akpabio: APC’s Silver Bullet for South-South Udom’s government is Akpabio’s third term in Akwa Ibom - Chief Nkpubre Akpabio’s defection has swallowed Saraki, others — APC senator