The Federal Government of Nigeria is reviewing the draft National Diaspora Policy (NDP) in order to attract more investments from Nigerians in the Diaspora. The policy is also aimed at maximally harnessing the skills and affluence of Nigerians outside the country for national development. The 3-day stakeholders’ workshop for the review of the draft National Diaspora Policy and Action Plan, in Kaduna, was organised by the International Organization for Migration (IOM). Speaking at the opening ceremony of the workshop, the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons(NCFRMI), Safiya Umaru Farouq said the policy, when adopted, would go a long way in complementing the existing efforts of the Federal Government in ensuring that Nigerians abroad are well protected and Nigeria derives maximum benefits from its Diaspora. Also speaking, the Chief of Mission, IOM Nigeria, Mr. Frantz Celestin, said: “ Beyond sending remittances, the Diasporas have been promoting trade and foreign direct investment, creating businesses and spurring up entrepreneurship and transferring new knowledge and skills. He underscored the need for Diaspora engagement that requires a sustained effort, especially to support Diaspora investment, entrepreneurship endeavours, social remittances and knowledge transfers. “It is highly imperative to put in place policies and other regulatory frameworks and programmes that will create the enabling environment for Diaspora investment to thrive. “Also, incentives and other initiatives that will attract Diaspora and facilitate their ties with the country needs to be strategically thought of and implemented.” When the final draft of the NDP is adopted by the stakeholders, drawn from Ministries, Departments, Agencies and non-governmental organisations, the document would be transmitted to the Federal Executive Council for consideration and approval. Nigerians in diaspora remit over $21bn annually to Nigeria - IOM FG impressed by Nigerians in diaspora contribution to National development – SGF Diaspora: Medical professionals to provide volunteer health services in Nigeria — Buhari