The Nigeria Army has appointed Colonel Sagir Musa as its new spokesman, while Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu is posted to the Defence Headquarters as its new spokesman. A statement on Monday by Colonel Aliyu Yusuf, who has been acting spokesman of the army, after the retirement of Brigadier General Sani Usman, announced the new army appointments. He said the army on Sunday 10 February 2019, released the postings and appointments of some of its senior officers. He said those affected include; Brigadier General NJ Okah, who has been posted from Nigerian Army Institute of Technology and Environmental Studies (NAITES) to Army Headquarters’ Department of Army Logistics and appointed Acting Director of Engineering  Services. Brigadier General MA Masanawa from Army Headquarters, Department of Army Policy and Plans to ACADA and appointed Commander, while Brigadier General HT Wesley is posted from Headquarters’ Nigerian Army Ordinance Corps to Army Headquarters’ Department of Army Logistics has been appointed Director Clothing and Store. Brigadier General HG Tafida of the Nigerian Army Central Workshop Rigachukwu has been posted to Army Headquarters’ Department of Army Logistics and appointed Director Engineering and Maintenance. Brigadier General BA Ilori has been posted to Army Headquarters’ Department of Army Policy and Plans and appointed Deputy Director Equipment Procurement. Brigadier General AA Adereti is posted to National Defence College and appointed Directing Staff while Colonel O Nwachukwu, from Headquarters’ Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, has been posted to Defence Headquarters and appointed Acting Director Defence Information. Colonel S Musa has been posted to Directorate of Army Public Relations and appointed Acting Director, Army Public Relations Nigerian Army while Colonel AA Yusuf has been appointed Deputy Director Public Relations 82 Division Nigerian Army. Colonel AD Isa is posted to Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole and appointed Deputy Director Army Public Relations while the new Acting Corps Commander Nigerian Army  Medical  Corps is Colonel  S Adama. Army approves new postings, appointments of senior officers Army redeploys senior officers Army approves new postings, appointments of senior officers