The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress
(APC), Malam Mohammed  Bio as the winner of the Baruten/Kaiama seat in Saturday’s  House of Representatives election. The INEC Returning Officer, Prof.  Lanre Olaitan, who announced the result on Sunday in Kaiama, headquarters of Kaiama Local Government Area of Kwara,  said that the APC candidate polled  37, 914 votes to defeat the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Musa, who scored 14, 476. The PDP candidate, an immediate former chairman of the state branch of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) lost to an immediate former chairman of the Baruten Local Government Area of Kwara. “That Mallam Mohammed Omar Bio having fulfilled the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of vote is declared the winner and hereby returned elected,’’  declared Olaitan of the Department of Human Kinetics and and Health Education of the University of Ilorin. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that with the declaration APC has officially won three seats of the six  House of Representatives seats from Kwara. INEC also  declared Mr Ajibola Bashiru of the APC winner of the Osun Central Senatorial District election held on Saturday. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Titilayo Kuku, while announcing the results of the National Assembly election, declared the APC candidate as the winner with 132,821 votes. Kuku also announced the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr Ganiyu Olaoluwa, as the first runner-up with a total votes of 106,779. The returning officer thereafter announced and returned  Bashiru of the APC as the elected senator to represent the  senatorial district in the senate. “I, Prof. Titilayo Kuku, hereby certify that I am the returning officer for Osun Central Senatorial District election held on Feb. 23, 2019. “That Ajibola Bashiru of the APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law and scoring the highest votes, is hereby declared the winner and returned as the senator to represent Osun Central Senatorial District,’’ the official said. Similarly, the  INEC Returning Officer for Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu Federal Constituency, Prof. Olukayode Ashaye, also  announced Mr Olubukola Oyewo of the APC  as the winner of the Federal House of Representatives election seat. Ashaye announced Oyewo as the winner of the election after scoring 66,933 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mr Adebayo Adewale of the PDP,  who scored 59,551 votes. He said: “I,  Prof. Oluwakayode Ashaye,  hereby certify that I am the returning officer for the Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu Federal Constituency election held on Feb. 23, 2019. “That Olubukola Oyewo of the APC received the highest votes and having satisfied the requirements and scoring the highest votes is hereby returned elected.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  reports that the election results were announced at the same venue at Oloronkoro Town hall in  Osogbo by the two  returning officers 2019: Kwara North endorses Saliu Mustapha for APC ticket APC: Kwara North endorses Mustapha for gov’ship 2015 Political Events in Retrospective