Mountain of Fire Ministries Football (MFM) Club came back from two goals down to defeat Niger Tornadoes of Minna 3-2 victory in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) match day 8 fixture played at the Agege Stadium in Lagos yesterday and remained top of the NPFL Group A log. Kenedinum Chuks’ goal at the dot of 90 minute earned the Lagos side the three maximum points at stake. The evening didn’t look bright for the hosts as they conceded in the 4th minute through a goal by Abashayi Peter after the blast of the whistle by referee as Ikoh Allah. Tornadoes doubled the lead six minutes later through Jonathan Osondu. The hosts’ defence looked disarrayed as Osondu nearly got a brace in the 17minutes but his effort nearly missed target. There was a call for penalty but the referee waved play on. Two minutes later, the host player Michael Ohanu could have reduced the deficit as he failed to head the ball after Mubarak Said sent in a cross. MFM’s Olawale Abisoye halved the deficit towards the end of the first half when he connected home a long throw from Jonathan Zikiye. The Fidelis Ilechukwu boys gained momentum after Michael Ohanu levelled the scores before Kenedinum Chuks enveloped the match maximum point as he beat the off side trap to put smile on the Lagos based team faces. Speaking with MFM coach Mr. Fidelis Ilechukwu appreciated his wards for their doggedness. “I am happy because we didn’t give up, I knew that after the goals we are going to score. The most important thing is three points and I want to commend the boys for their efforts. I didn’t put them on pressure because they are playing well. All I just need to do was to let them settle down. “This team is a young team, I don’t put them under pressure and I am not under pressure and what we are trying to do is to see that MFM did not relegate,” he said. In the other matches played yesterday, El-Kanemi defeated Abia Warriors 1-0 in Maiduguri, Heartland and IfeanyiUbah settled for 1-1 draw, Kano Pillars thrashed neighbours Yobe desert Stars 3-1, while Plateau United dispatched visiting Go Round 1-0. With the results, MFM remain top of the Group log with 15 points from seven matches, followed by Enyimba with 10 points from seven matches, while Katsina United stay in the third position with 9 points from four matches. At the basement of the group is reigning champions Lobi Stars of Makurdi with 4 points from three matches. Rampant Katsina Utd thrash Go Round to go up Plateau United win 2016/2017 NPFL title MFM reduce Plateau Utd’s lead to three points