All is not well among stakeholders and chieftains of the PDP in Lagos State over alleged lack of coordination in the ongoing electioneering ahead of the general elections, Daily Trust can report. A former Minister of Works, Sen. Adeseye Ogunlewe, had raised an alarm, warning that the party might lose elections if it had no coordination. In a viral social media post, Ogunlewe said, “To all members of Global Mandate. We have a big problem in PDP in Lagos State. There are three campaign teams. We have 207. We have 112. We have the party secretariat. What do you suggest we must do? The main objective is to win the elections. Without coordination, we may labour in vain.” Sen. Ogunlewe who spoke with our correspondent, expressed concern that the lack of harmony in the campaign structure might precipitate defeat for the party in the state. He said there were three campaign structures in the state: the presidential campaign for Atiku Abubakar, the governorship candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, and the party’s campaign team, all working at cross purposes. He pointed out that the disharmony stemmed from the disagreements over the outcome of the party’s primaries, as well as the presidential primary held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, saying many party members were still aggrieved. Ogunlewe, however, stressed the need for all party members to forget the past and reunite in the interest of the party. “We can win these elections, but there must be unity,” adding that, “I am an elderly man. I have been a minister. I have been a senator. I am not contesting any election. If I see something that is going wrong and I don’t speak out, I would be a fool,” he said. However, the Chairman of Lagos Legacy Group for Atiku, Dayo Williams, insisted there was no division in Lagos PDP, saying Ogunlewe’s alarm had no basis. In a statement, Williams said, “Let it be known that there is no divided house in Lagos PDP. Any attempt to input a sense of disharmony in our party is untrue, false, without foundation.” JUST IN: 'Atiku, Agbaje may lose in Lagos if...' Defections show growing confidence in PDP, says Ogunlewe 2019: Atiku’s SGF promise good for South-West — Ogunlewe