The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has promised to improve agriculture and commerce if elected president come February 16 election. Addressing the mammoth crowd at Sani Abacha Stadium in Kano on Sunday, Atiku lamented the collapsed of industries across the country. He also accused the APC-led government of crippling industries across the country, promising that when PDP assumes power, it will revive all the collapsed industries. “The people of Kano, I am aware that yours is business and farming; if you elect me come February 16, I will provide you with conducive atmosphere for farming and business. “I will equally improve activities of hajj to make things easy for you to perform the annual hajj operation,” he said. The former vice president promised to improve security in the country, assuring that his government would address the issue of insecurity. Speaking earlier, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, said going by the mammoth crowd that received Atiku in Kano, the youth have proven that PDP would win Kano. He said, “Kano youth have proven to us that Kano is for the PDP. We are happy that youth have answered our call.” Also speaking, the Director General of Atiku Campaign, Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki called on Kano people to vote APC out of government come February 16. He said, “People are suffering because there is hunger everywhere and it is only PDP can bail you out of this situation.” In his remarks, the National Chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus noted that the crowd that converged on Sani Abacha Stadium was a sign of a gradual political revolution in Nigeria. Secondus assured that “From what we saw today in Kano, the APC-led government cannot rig election. The electorate are wise and no one can rig the 2019 general elections in favour of the APC.” Daily Trust reports that about 30 supporters of the PDP fainted during the rally due to large turnout in the area. 6 Days to Presidential Poll: Buhari, Atiku in Final Push for Votes Atiku campaign organisation meets Kannywood members in Kaduna Atiku flags off campaign, promises inclusive govt