The National Council for Women Society (NCWS) has called on Nigerian women to counsel their husbands, sons and other male relatives and acquaintances, including women not to engage in any acts that will draw our nation back as we vote in the coming elections. The President, NCWS, Mrs Laraba Shoda who made this known at a press briefing Friday said, we have everything to gain if we stay on the right course of peace and stability appealing to all and sundry not to cancel out gains our great nation has made through a few immature acts at this time. “Violence against women during elections is a well-known fact in this country. Women candidates, elections officials, observers and voters alike are vulnerable to attacks during this period. We appeal to our security agencies to bear this in mind and do their best to prevent this from happening. Many of our women have suffered violence during elections and most of these cases go unreported.” She called for vigilance and data collection on any gender-based incidents as part of a broader data collection effort for future reports. Mrs Shoda also cautioned NCWS elections observers to take care of themselves adding that they should think safety first and do not interfere in electioneering process even when they see anything going wrong. “Your role is to quietly observe the process for making a report later; please, don’t use your phone to record or take photographs when the atmosphere is tensed. Do not take any unnecessary risks, your family and loved ones are waiting to see you back home,” she advised. While applauding the effort of INEC, she also urged the electoral body to continue in her bid to ensure free, fair and credible elections and abide by the guidelines and regulation which it released in January, 2019. “on the whole, we urged the government to continue to create an environment which will foster peace and security. We are not unaware of the security challenges in some part of the North, and we commend our armed forces for their gallant services and urged them to continue unabated to ensure that Nigeria is free from terrorism and insurgency.” Rapist of babies, children should be jailed for 50 years - NCWS president Women would  make things  happen in 2011  –NCWS President,       Ramatu Violence-free, fair elections: Women should MAKE IT HAPPEN