The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, alongside other prominent  chieftains of the party in Lagos state have waded into the political imbroglio between the state governor,  Akinwunmi Ambode and the state House of Assembly, thus putting an end to moves aimed at impeaching the governor. In a statement made available to journalists in Lagos by Tinubu’s spokesperson, Tunde Rahman, the differences between the two arms of government was said to have been resolved at a Special Governor’s Advisory Committee (GAC) meeting held on Sunday in Marina, Lagos. GAC is the highest most powerful council within the Lagos state chapter of the APC. Daily Trust has reported on Sunday how despite pressures from different quarters, the lawmakers have begun collation of signatures to formally kick-start the process of impeaching the governor whom they accused of spending money out of the yet-to-be considered 2019 budget proposal. According to the statement, the meeting with the GAC was attended by Tinubu, Governor Ambode, his deputy, Dr. (Mrs) Idiat Adebute, the state House of Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, his Deputy, Hon. Wasiu Esinlokun, and Lagos Central Senatorial Leader, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, among others. “We held a meeting on behalf of entire Lagosians. In the last one week or so, there has been some talks about a conflict between the Executive and the Legislature in Lagos. This is of great concern to us. We looked at the source of the conflict, which is normal in a democracy, and that is why there are also conflict-resolution mechanisms. “We examined the grievances on both sides. As leaders, we also looked into areas where there has to be compromise. In order to build institutions and encourage consensus-building, we have to do what is right. There is no impeachment. Let there be more communication and consensus-building and understanding. All these are inbuilt in the democratic system,” Tinubu was quoted to have said at the meeting. Plot to impeach Ambode thickens How Lagos assembly is caging Ambode with impeachment threat Ambode: I’m ready for primaries