The initial disappointment that trailed the shelving of the Presidential election by one week is gradually waning, with calls on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure a successful ballot come February 23rd. A number of Nigerians have actually travelled from Accra to exercise their franchise last Saturday, only to realize that the election had been postponed, prompting them to return to the country. News of the postponement of the February 16, Presidential ballot was received with shock by Nigerians and Ghanaians alike. Some media outlets in Accra were already looking forward to see how the poll unfolds. Mr. Clement Dziofor, a Ghanaian broadcaster, who was palpably shocked by the development, said the shift in date was capable of sending wrong signals to the international community about the seriousness of the country. “This is not very good. The whole continent is looking up to Nigeria to organize a credible poll. Nigeria is the big brother of Africa. If anything goes wrong with the country. It will dovetail to other parts of Africa. All eyes are on Nigeria and it must not disappoint,” he said. Mohammed, a Nigerian resident in Ghana. “I am angry with INEC for waiting till a few hours before the election before postponing it. It is a bad precedent and it certainly will damage further our fragile image in the international community.” Another respondent, Jonathan Okeke put the blame on the leadership of the Electoral Commission Saying, “The Chairman of the Electoral commission is incompetent. This is clear from what just transpired. He had one year to prepare for an election. But he has proven to the whole world that he is incapable of conducting an election.” Despite the outburst over the shelving of the presidential election, some respondents expressed optimism that INEC could salvage the situation by conducting a credible poll next Saturday. For instance, Dziofor, while commending Nigerians for their calmness, amidst last Saturday’s debacle urged them not to lose hope. “I will advise Nigerians to remain patient and resolute. They should come out in their numbers and vote next Saturday for their leader. We are looking forward to a very successful election in the country. I wish the country the very best,” he enthused. Oluwakayode Iposu, A Nigerian resident in Ghana, after expressing his initial disappointment over the shift in Election Day, had words of encouragement for the Electoral Commission and the electorates. Why we postponed elections – INEC Presidential poll now march 28 Fresh plots to  scuttle 2015 polls