As the 2019 election is fast approaching, women have been enjoined to deviate from violence during the electoral process. Speaking at a women national rally on violence free elections Tuesday, the National Coordinator Women Situation Room, Dr Joy Ada Onyesoh, called on all women to stand for peace as the elections is getting near. She said they are saying NO to vote buying and violence and also calling on all parties to ensure that there is peace during the election.”
Dr Onyesoh who advised all the citizenry to wake up to their responsibility by collecting the PVC so as to enable them to vote on Election Day also said, ‘we know that a lot of women lost their positions during the party primaries, we still don’t want them to be discouraged, but wait to contest in the next four years, 2023 is just around the corner and we will begin to strategise.” The Director, Centre for Democracy and Development, Idayat Hassan also urged Nigerian women to vote for the right candidates adding that they want all the political parties to do the right thing while also enjoining all members of the society not to engage in violence during the elections. She said the percentage of women that registered for the election is high and there is need for full participation while adding that Come 2023, they want to see women taking strategic position during the political process and they will start the involvement from now on, and not wait till the last minute.” The President, Women in Politics Forum, Ebere Ifendu also called on all Nigerian women to come out enmasse and vote while emphasising that there should be no display of violence during the forthcoming elections. “We want INEC, the security personnel, and government to guarantee peace during the period of the elections. There should be no fighting, killing and maiming of citizens both during and after the elections. The women need to be assured that they won’t be attacked when they come to vote and assurance should also be given that our children will not be used as thugs.”