There are reported pockets of jubilation across Katsina state following the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of last Saturday’s presidential election. In the metropolis, even though the announcement came early in the morning when most people were asleep the few that stayed to watch it on TV jumped to the streets to celebrate. Motorcyclists could be heard from distances speeding on empty roads just as some APC campaigns vehicles can be spotted blaring loud music from their mounted speakers along the roads. Supporters had since around 11pm being setting up music boxes along streets waiting while some were seen dancing to loud music prior to the  announcement. Some supporters on Wednesday morning were seen with mock coffins of the PDP moving along major streets of the state to the admiration of onlookers. Special morning prayers were held at various mosques in the state just as Imams asked supporters to pray rather than engaged on road displays. In Daura, the president hometown, youths came out en masse and went round the town’s strategic places greeting people. Our reporter learnt that the youths later converged at the Kangiwa square to further celebrate with motorcycles and cars displays. The celebration outings of this year were far below that of 2015, our reporter observed. Some people spoken to said now that the presidential election was over it is time to mend wounds and forge ahead with Nigeria as the uniting point. Abdurahman Abdullahi Dutsinma said: “The president needs to understand the extent of love and by that, much is expected from him especially in the area of security, youth empowerment, health and education. In addition, he said Nigerians have trust in him for being incorruptible but that his war against corruption must be intensified and to everybody irrespective of political, religious or ethnic affiliation. Another resident, Malam Bishir Aliyu, said the president should carefully observe the election results and give priority attention to those who gave him most votes saying that ” I’m not suggesting neglecting others but a little priority for their support” However, for Salisu, the election is now over but what is now left is for the president is to close all wounds and move the country forward. Aliyu Daura who thanked God for the victory and pray for more guidance to the president also called on all to continue to support and cooperate with the president as he strive to make life more meaningful for Nigerians. Yusif Mahmmed said politics is a game of numbers and interest as such the president should be watchful and do the need full. He called for youths’ involvement in the new cabinet being expected. Buhari: Soldiers, Policemen, others celebrate in Maiduguri, Katsina Soldiers, police join in massive celebrations for change Soldiers, police join in massive celebrations for change