The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has asked security agencies to probe the alleged appearance of those it described as foreign thugs and the presence of two governors from Niger Republic at President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign rally in Kano on Thursday. The party also demanded the All Progressives Congress (APC’s) explanation on why it found it necessary to import governors from another country to participate in Nigeria’s electoral process at a time of serious security challenges. The Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan who addressed a press conference in Abuja yesterday, said the appearance of “foreign powers” at Buhari’s campaign showed desperation. The PDP said in their desperation, the APC and presidency had compromised Nigeria’s territorial integrity as a nation, adding that their action portends grave danger to national security and the sanctity of the electoral process. “For a nation contending with insurgency and banditry, the involvement of mercenaries from neighbouring countries in the APC rally must be condemned by all and sundry. Already, there are apprehensions that miscreants who came from Niger Republic to President Buhari’s rally are being offered accommodation in our country by the APC to unleash violence immediately it is clear that President Buhari is losing the February 16 presidential election. “On account of these, PDP demands an urgent and thorough investigation into the circumstances leading to the presence of politicians and thugs from Niger Republic at the APC presidential rally in Kano on Thursday. “The APC and the Buhari Presidency must immediately explain the roles being played by Issa Moussa, Governor of Zinder and his counterpart from Maradi, Zakiri Umar both of Niger Republic, who were sighted decked in the attires and official logos of the APC, in our political affairs. “Our security agencies must immediately investigate and lay in the public domain the circumstances leading to their presence, which more or less confirms that the APC has lost all domestic credibility and has assumed a desperate mode,” he said. “The presence of the Niger Republic Governors at President Buhari’s rally signposts a direct assault on the credibility of the presidential elections. This is particularly against the backdrop of INEC’s plans to allow Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in that country to vote in our election, a situation that opens the way for aliens to infiltrate as IDPs and participate in our elections. “Our apprehensions are accentuated by INEC’s recent mass creation of additional polling units which have not been properly designated and which may be deployed for the perpetuation of monumental electoral fraud. We note how Kano State, in 2015, delivered 1.9 million votes to the APC presidential candidate in circumstances devoid of transparency and credulity. “Moreover, the promise by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State to deliver five million votes to Presidential Buhari in the 2019 elections is predicated on the unfettered opening of our international borders to foreign political interests. “What was the true purpose of the invitation of these foreigners to the APC rally in Kano on Thursday? What secret deals did APC leaders make with them at the expense of our national security?” he added.  PDP demands probe of thugs, Niger govs appearance at Buhari campaign rally 2019: PDP condemns attempt to drag military into Buhari's campaign APC, PDP in endless battle over corruption, economy