Senator Philip Tanimu Aduda, representing the FCT, has said he would be proud to leave behind the legacy of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) attaining mayoral status. Aduda who spoke with newsmen at his residence in Jabi on Monday, said was seeking for reelection so that he could achieve that whenever there is constitutional amendment in the next session of the National Assembly. He said he would lobby his colleagues so that he would get the necessary support needed to give the FCT the status. He regretted that the senate made efforts to ensure the bill for people of the FCT to have a representative at the federal executive council scaled through but could not pass through at the House of Representatives level. He, however, assured residents that he would ensure the bill is tabled again before the next session of the senate. “These are parts of my agenda that is taking me back to the senate; that has been my struggle throughout my sojourn in the National Assembly and I want to continue with that to give my people what they truly deserve,” he said. Aduda also said he has been able to sink over 200 boreholes with overhead tanks across rural communities in the FCT within the last three years, adding that he has also constructed health centres and provided equipment in the centres. According to him, he has also empowered youth and women across the six area councils in skills acquisition and supported them with funds to embark on businesses of their choices. He said students of FCT origin studying in various tertiary institutions across the country also benefitted from his scholarship scheme. The senator added that he has constructed various rural feeders and township roads as part of his constituency projects. “Sometimes you have to pray to God Almighty to give you the wisdom to reach out to those that you have not been able to reach, so that you can continue to promote the existing unity, peace and prosperity of the people of the FCT,” Aduda said. We’re addressing your plight,  Ekweremadu tells FCT natives Ona of Abaji lauds Aduda over Abuja tech varsity bill FCT councils lack political structure - Aduda