The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Mike Igini, yesterday, said the commission has relocated 22 polling units from private homes of politicians in the state. Mr. Igini stated this in Uyo during a meeting with heads of security agencies, INEC officials and stakeholders of political parties. Although he did not elaborate on how polling units were domiciled at residences of politicians, Igini said INEC was ready to conduct free, fair and credible elections that would be acceptable by all. The REC blamed politicians for electoral violence in the state, saying they were closely working with the police to ensure that the electorate exercised its franchise in a serene environment. He urged all and sundry to play by the rules in Saturday’s elections, adding that as the REC in the state, he had gathered experience in three states where he worked. He said, “Democracy and legitimate elections are required to supply legitimacy to the government. Every time we are going for an election, it is as if we are going to war. This is sad. “An election day should be a day when the sovereignty of the people should be reaffirmed. Election brings about accountability and processes of human endeavour. You cannot talk about democracy without the rule of law. “Unfortunately, the political elite who are the highest beneficiaries of our electoral process are the greatest threat to our democracy.” Earlier, the Commissioner of Police in Akwa Ibom State, Bashir Makama, who organised the meeting, warned politicians and the electorate against all forms of electoral malpractice. CP Makama cautioned them to desist from buying, selling or canvassing for votes at the polling units on election days. He said anyone caught indulging in such acts would be arrested by the police, adding that the command had done everything possible to ensure free, fair and credible elections on Saturday. INEC shuts 19 illegal polling units in A/Ibom INEC relocates 22 polling units from A/Ibom politicians’ homes 2019 polls: Akwa Ibom APC seeks redeployment of REC