Governor Muhammad Jibrilla has reacted to an allegation by the Nigerian Ambassador to Mexico, Aminu Iyawa that he (the governor) governor was responsible for President Muhammadu Buhari’s loss in Adamawa. Iyawa, through his verified Facebook page blamed the governor for failing to win the state for the APC presidential candidate. The PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, had defeated Buhari with a margin of 32,188 votes. “How can he (Gov. Jibrilla) explain his failure to deliver his senatorial district, a constituency he served as its senator between 2011 – 2015 before becoming governor,” the ambassador asked. “How can a sitting governor lose his constituency to the PDP, a party that we all know had been in comatose in Adamawa?” Iyawa asked again. “Adamawa people are no fools. We know that what happened was a well thought out plan designed to give Atiku the edge. Nobody cared to listen when I was fuming and wailing that the governor should not be trusted,” he added. Reacting to the allegation, a statement issued by the Secretary, Bindow/Buhari Campaign Council, Umar Duhu, described Ambassador Iyawa as an opportunist who was out to smear the governor’s image. According to the statement, Iyawa did not have the moral standing to accuse Jibrilla of treachery when he (Iyawa) had not contributed to the party even in his local area. “In his spiteful misleading and mischievous postulation, Iyawa claimed Governor Bindow sold out the state for the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to garner considerable votes at the polls and he further malignly pointed that Governor Bindow designed a plan to give Atiku an edge in the polls,” he said. “He was lucky to get a Federal Government appointment as an Ambassador but Iyawa has never attended any APC stakeholders’ meeting in the state or convene any such meeting in his local government or ward to push the cause of President Buhari or the APC,” he said. Why Atiku won Adamawa by a whisker APC blames Bindow for failure in Adamawa In Adamawa, Bindo to battle APC chieftains for re-election