One of the supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was reportedly killed at the party’s campaign in Igboora, Ibarapaland on Saturday evening. This came in about forty-eight hours after the convoy of the Oyo state gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Seyi Makinde was attacked in Ojoo area of the city which left many injured days ago. A witness had told reporters that armed thugs laid ambush for Makinde and his team who were returning from Oyo after their campaigns in the town. On the Saturday’s incident, a witness told our correspondent that around 5:30pm when the campaign was reportedly peaked, gunmen struck the venue and killed an Okada mechanic in the area, who is a supporter of the party. The APC spokesman, Dr. AbdulAzeez Olatunde, accused the PDP of attempting to kill its gubernatorial candidate, Mr. Bayo Adelabu, who he claimed only escaped from the attack by the whiskers. Olatunde said, “the untoward event occurred barely after the APC guber hopeful, Oloye Bayo Adelabu finished addressing a capacity crowd of supporters who were apparently in upbeat mood to receive the candidate and his campaign train in the sleepy town. “Shortly after the address by the duo of Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi and the party’s governorship candidate, Oloye Bayo Adelabu, some stern looking PDP hatchet men were poised to attack the gubernatorial candidate of APC, Bayo Adelabu wielding dangerous weapons as they advanced to his direction to unleash attack on him.” He said it took the proactive efforts of the security men to hurriedly whisk Adelabu away to the nearest vehicle for protection. Makinde had earlier through his Director of Media and Publicity, Prince Dotun Oyelade called on the state Commissioner of Police and the Director of SSS to as a matter of urgency, summon an emergency meeting of leaders of all political parties on the current tense security situation in the state., Makinde alleged that the government who should enforce peace and the governor who should be the Chief Security Officer have abandoned their roles and become partisan. Makinde said that “security chiefs must take his advice seriously because thugs of the government’s party, the APC are getting bolder, more desperate and audacious with each passing day having realised that electoral defeat is imminent.” He cited the unprovoked attack on his entourage at Ojoo in Akinyele local government three days ago and other previous attacks on the oppositions. What is more worrisome is the threat of attacks on harmless supporters who are not necessarily card carrying members of our party but who simply want change and better governance. Engr. Makinde promised that he would attend such peace meeting gladly because he wants a peaceful poll and does not want bloodletting in the name of seeking political office. 1 die, others injured as APC, PDP members clash in Ekiti Ekiti: How violence may threaten June 21 poll PDP, APC supporters clash in Kogi