The masses on the street of Lagos State have expressed shock and disappointment over the postponement of Presidential and National Assembly (NASS) elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday. Residents, who had prepared their minds, stocked their houses with food stuff and fuel for their generators in preparation for the polls, were highly disappointed when they woke up to hear that the elections have been postponed. Nigerians have however, reacted differently to the postponed election, while some see it as a welcome development that will enable the electoral commission conduct a proper election, others see it as a distraction and a way of discouraging people from voting. Some people, who travelled into Lagos from other states for the purpose of casting their votes, expressed disappointment over the sudden change; as some of them expressed unwillingness to come back to Lagos next week for the election. Also, those who had postponed their occasions because of the election expressed disappointment as they said next week Saturday was no longer a good date for them. Mr. Oladeji Kazeem said he travelled into Lagos on Friday night from Ondo state just to come and cast his vote but now disappointed over the postponement. “INEC had four years to prepare for this election, why postponing it barely four hours to the election? It is unfair and it means our leaders do not have respect for the people and that is why they take decisions anyhow. “The truth is that I cannot travel down here again next week for the same election and that means, my vote is lost and I am sure there are many other people who will not travel again for the election,” he said. A mobile tailor, sighted close to Mangoro market along Iyana-Ipaja/Oshodi express way, Abubakar Mohammed said he was not happy about the postponement because he was already set for the elections before he got the news in the morning. “It was abrupt and it gives an impression that there is something fishy and whether they like it or not, I will vote the candidate of my choice whenever INEC is ready to conduct the election,” he said. Another trader at Agege, Mr. Salaudeen Tijjani said the postponement will, by no small means, affect the election result; saying people who have travelled this week for the election may not be willing to do so again next week. “That is not good for our democracy because it is a way of inconveniencing the voters.” Supporters of various political parties were also seen trading blame over who was responsible for the postponement of the election. On the hand, an okada rider at Ikeja along, Mr. Dennis Donald described the postponement as a blessing in disguise, saying it will help INEC to reinforce and block every loopholes that could be used to rig the election. Mama Blessing, a vegetable seller, also said the postponement had afforded her the opportunity to sell the vegetables she could not sell on Friday. Election postponement will disenfranchise voters - Lagos PDP candidate Doubts over feasibility of Monday polls Electorate lash out at INEC over elections postponement