The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in last Saturday’s election, Atiku Abubakar, has rejected the outcome of the poll which placed President Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner. Atiku, in a statement by his Media Office on Wednesday said he is a democrat but has not congratulated Buhari because the election was allegedly rigged. The former Vice President said if he had lost in a free and fair election, he would have called Buhari to congratulate him and also contribute his quota to ensure the unity and progress of the nation as a bridge between the North and the South. “With regards to the Presidential elections that took place on February 23, 2019, it is clear that there were manifest and premeditated malpractices in many states which negate the results announced. “One obvious red flag is the statistical impossibility of states ravaged by the war on terror generating much higher voter turnouts than peaceful states. The suppressed votes in my strongholds are so apparent and amateurish, that I am ashamed as a Nigerian that such could be allowed to happen. “How can total votes in Akwa-Ibom, for instance, be 50% less than what they were in 2015? “Another glaring anomaly is the disruption of voting in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers and diverse other states, with the authorities doing little or nothing and in some cases facilitating these unfortunate situations. “The militarization of the electoral process is a disservice to our democracy and a throwback to the jackboot era of military dictatorship. “In some areas of the country, such as, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Imo states, troops deployed for the elections turned their guns on the very citizens they were meant to protect. This is condemnable and should not be associated with our electoral process in the future. “I am a democrat and there are democratic avenues available to present the truth to the nation and the watching world. Already, many international observers have given their verdicts, which corroborate our observations. I am sure more will come in the coming hours and days. “However, in my democratic struggles for the past three decades, I have never seen our democracy so debased as it was on Saturday, February 23, 2019. 2007 was a challenge, but President Yar’Adua was remorseful. In 2019, it is sad to see those who trampled on democracy thumping their noses down on the Nigerian people. “Consequently, I hereby reject the result of the February 23, 2019 sham election and will be challenging it in court. “I want to assure my supporters and the entire Nigerian people that together, we will not allow democracy to be emasculated. “I hope and pray Nigerians will someday summon the courage to defend democracy. That is the only way we can move away from being the world headquarters for extreme poverty,” he said. Atiku: I defeated Saraki, Kwankwaso, others in online poll #2019Election Buhari basking in popularity, Atiku on affinity in Bauchi In Ogun, no easy ride for Buhari, Atiku