Ahead of the planned international operations by Air Peace, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has urged the crew to be committed to exposing drug couriers in order to save lives. Speaking at the opening of the eight-day training for Air Peace cabin crew members, which commenced at the weekend in Lagos, the agency warned that those involved in drug peddling risked killing themselves or being executed if caught in some countries of the world. The training, according to a statement by Air Peace spokesman, Chris Iwarah, was part of the sensitisation programme for the carrier’s crew in preparation for its international flight operations which would commence soon. The airline plans to fly to Dubai, Sharjah, London, Houston, Johannesburg, Guangzhou-China, Mumbai, among other international destinations. Daily Trust reports that the airline recently operated demonstration flights to Port Harcourt, Kano, Freetown, Dakar, Johannesburg and Sharjah as part of the requirements for induction of the Boeing 777 aircraft it plans to deploy for its long-haul services. Speaking at the training, NDLEA’s three-man team comprising Principal Staff Officer (Administration and Logistics), Murtala Muhammed, International Airport Command; Mr. Abbas Abdullahi, Target and Intelligence Analyst; Mr. Akan Francis Inam and Staff Officer (Evidence Collection/Exhibit Keeping), Mr. Okwunjor Edache said drug couriers were daily devising new means to beat the system. The team, however, said the anti-drug agency was always a step ahead of the drug peddlers, who were frequently being exposed by NDLEA operatives. They urged Air Peace crew to be calm and cautious in observing passengers, saying drug couriers always left a trail. The NDLEA operatives warned the airline’s crew not to trust anyone and desist from making assumptions, saying drug peddlers could put up deceptive appearance to escape being exposed. Air Peace begins demo flights with Dakar, others to follow Arik air crew member arrested over cocaine possession in London Air Peace begins intl flights with Dubai, Sharjah November