The Acting National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Professor Tunde Adeniran, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to use the opportunity of his re-election to strengthen the unity of Nigeria and promote lasting peace and social justice. Prof. Adeniran, in a congratulatory letter sent to the President on his re-election which was made available to journalists by the SDP Director of Media and Publicity, Hon. Yemi Akinbode in Abuja yesterday, said Nigerians were pleased that his speech touched on key issues that the people would want the administration to focus on as he received the mandate of the people for another four years. He said the SDP as a Party shared his ethos and believe the President would meet the expectations of Nigerians. Part of the letter reads, “It gives us a great pleasure to extend our warm congratulations to you on your re-election as the president of our dear country Nigeria. Your success in this keenly contested election is attestation of the firm belief and confidence the people of Nigeria have in you as a leader who has devoted all his life to serving the people, first as a soldier ready to pay the supreme price to “keep Nigeria one”: second as Military administrator, bureaucrat and Military Head of State and lately as the president of Nigeria. In all these undertakings, you have proved yourself to be high in integrity, disciplined and have displayed uncommon passion for the development of our dear country. It is therefore not entirely surprising that the people of Nigeria have demonstrated their love for you by re-electing you as president. “We are pleased that in your acceptance speech, you have enumerated areas of concern that your administration would focus on. We believe that you would accordingly intensify efforts to combat insecurity that has divided our country, restructure the policy and economy to provide relief to the teeming population, especially our youths who are unemployed , strengthen the unity of our country like you have said by running an inclusive government to give every section of Nigeria a sense of belonging. “Mr President we share your ethos as a party and we believe you would meet the expectations of Nigerians with regards to deepening of our democracy, delivering good governance and promoting development rooted in social justice, freedom, equality, securing, peace and progress. “On behalf of the National Working Committee (NWC), the National Executive Committee (NEC) and entire members of our party, the SDP, we congratulate you again on this historic success at the poll. We feel vindicated to have endorsed and supported your candidacy and look to a harmonious working relationship in the national interest.” SDP adopts Buhari, to work with APC govt after 2019 elections New Year: SDP tasks Buhari on credible elections Doubts, questions as SDP plans big comeback