The Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano and the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige were floored by the Peter Obi factor in their bid to have an edge for President Muhammadu Buhari. Analysts believed Obi, who is a former governor of the state, succeeded in swaying the votes in favour of PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. Besides other factors, it was insinuated in the state that the sitting governor, Obiano was working for President Buhari and that irked many Anambra voters who voted against him in protest. Many Anambra chieftains wanted the governor to support Obi to give the PDP’s presidential project a boost. Atiku won the 17 local government areas in the state already declared by INEC. On the other hand, Ngige who is serving under Buhari as minister had also done all he could to deliver Anambra for the APC but failed. He had already raised the alarm that the process that led to the conduct of the presidential election in the state was flawed with malfunctioning card readers that failed to capture his finger prints. Daily Trust reports that Ngige was, however able to cast his vote later. Ngige further called for outright cancellation of the presidential election in his area Idemili North and Idemili South local government areas. According to him, there was a total breach of the Electoral Act in the process, threatening to challenge the process in court if it was not handled well by INEC which, he said, should conduct fresh poll in the areas. In Idemili South, President Buhari only got 2,220 votes while PDP’s Atiku polled 17,039. Obiano on the other hand secured 6,755 votes in Anambra East Local Government Area for Buhari while PDP stalwarts secured 13,422 votes for Atiku. Obiano and Hon. Tony Nwoye, who was made National Youth Mobilizer, Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Council, hail from the same area. In the same vein, Senator Andy Uba, the Anambra State Campaign Coordinator for Buhari Campaign Organisation, lost his senatorial seat and the presidential election in his local government areas of Aguata. He secured 1,955 votes for Buhari against PDP’s Atiku who polled 32,328 votes. Obi, Jennifer curry favours for Atiku in Anambra How Osinbajo, Obi will affect 2019 calculations Between Andy & Soludo: The Yar’adua-Obasanjo factor