Business conglomerate, BUA Group, has rewarded its customers and distributors with 25 cars worth over N500 million and cash gifts in appreciation of their support and loyalty to the growth of the company. The event, tagged: “Celebrating Excellence: 30 Years of Unlocking Opportunities – The BUA Gala and Awards”, was well attended by captains of industries and banks, staff, friends and family members. In his remark, the Executive Chairman/CEO, BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, expressed gratitude to the customers for believing in the vision and mission to build a world class company and assured that with their continued partnership “the future is ours for the taking.” Abdul Samad who recalled BUA’s yesteryears as a trading company importing various commodities into Nigeria, said the achievements of the company was made possible with support and loyalty of customers, partners, employees, family and friends. He said, “This is a celebration of you – our valued customers, partners, employees, family and friends – whose support and loyalty has helped us grow the BUA brand from its days as a trading company to one of Nigeria’s largest manufacturing concerns. We could not have done this without you. “Our social pact with communities where we are operating and the country as a whole has also been strong. We have embarked on various social intervention and impact activities across healthcare, education, water and sanitation to sports, poverty eradication, and environmental sustainability, among others. We have firmly put a human face to our business. “I say it with the utmost sense of humility that your partnership with us has carried us up to this point.  You have journeyed with us and we will need more of your support so that we can do even more. To our dear staff – some of who have been with BUA from the very beginning – I say a big thank you for keeping the flag of excellence flying. “We are forever grateful for the years of little beginnings.  You believed in our vision and mission to build a world class company as we have done today. I believe that with our continued partnership, the future is ours for the taking.” BUA, CBMI sign pact to build 3m capacity Kalambaina Cement plant Cement Company of Northern Nigeria gets new CEO Dangote, Samad redeem N75m pledge to Falcons