Gunmen Monday killed Senator Kabiru Marafa’s elder sister, Hajia Ade Marafa and 14 others in attacks on seven villages in Mada district of Gusau local government area of Zamfara State. Bandits also reportedly killed 11 persons and set several houses ablaze in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of the state. The spokesman of the state police command, Muhammad Shehu, in a statement yesterday, said the attacks on Mada district were presumably reprisals to the attacks on some Fulanis on board  a J5 Vehicle last Friday  where seven Fulanis and their animals were killed and set ablaze by an outlawed group of “Yansakai”. He, however, said normalcy had been restored to the affected villages with improved deployment of security operatives to the area to forestall further attack on neighbouring villages. “The Zamfara State Police Command wishes to confirm the killing of 15 persons including a female as well as an alleged kidnap of 6 women and one Alhaji Ibrahim, after an attack on Wonaka, Ajja, Mada, Ruwan Baure, Doka, Takoka and Tudun Maijatau villages of Mada District in Gusau LGA yesterday (Monday). Fortunately, the 6 abducted women have regained their freedom and have rejoined their families. “In another development, the District head of Gwashi in Bukkuyum LGA reported that Armed Bandits  had stormed Batauna village and killed 11 persons and set several houses ablaze. “Details are still sketchy due to distance/terrain inaccessibility and lack of GSM coverage. Units of PMF/CTU/Special forces and military were mobilized to complement the effort of security personnel already on ground and also confirm the authenticity of the report. “The entire axis and environs have been subjected to coordinate bush combing for possible arrest of the perpetrators. “Discreet investigation into this dastardly act has already commenced, and all perpetrators would be fished out and made to face the full wrath of the law,” the statement  read. Marafa’s personal assistsnt, Abubakar Tsafe, in a statement, said Hajia Ade Marafa’s husband, Alhaji Ibrahim and his brother were also kidnapped Hajia Marafa was buried yesterday in accordance with the Islamic rites. Monday's attacks on Zamfara villages likely reprisal – Police Gunmen kill 17 in fresh Zamfara attack Bandits sack 10 Zamfara villages, residents flee