The people of South East have been called upon to reelect President Muhammadu Buhari as the fastest way to produce President of the country and also to show appreciation towards the unprecedented development his government has brought to the zone. The greatest need of every Igbo man is the presidency and not the Vice President or any other position, because it is the only region that has not produced president of the country. A member,Board of Trustee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State, Raph Okeke who made the call in Onitsha, Anambra state on Saturday said that Buhari’s achievements in the zone were more than enough for the igbos to vote for him, stating the igbos stand to benefit more by his re-election because it will speedy the process of the region producing the next president. According to him,critics of Buhari are now making up their minds to vote for him following the numerous infrastructural development ,the zone had enjoyed in his three and half years government. He said the igbos voting for Buhari is the quickest way of the south east to producing president of the country comes 2023, which is the desire of Ndi Igbo. Okeke, a two term member of the House of Reps, said the 16years of PDP administration was wasteful, saying that those wasteful years were being restored by the APC under the Buhari-led government. “With what is happening on the Onitsha-Enugu-Port Harcourt express way, Nnewi-Okigwe highway coupled with tremendous pace of work on the 2nd Niger bridge, even the most skeptical critic will agree that if PDP had done half of what is currently going on in 16 years, the situation would have been different today. “The shift towards the APC nationwide is so strong that even the South-South zone which hitherto was regarded as the PDP strong-hold have joined the APC train,” he said. According to him, the South East was the most favoured region to produce the next President in 2023 courtesy of the “APC power sharing arrangement and Mr. President’s integrity.” “The biggest need and agitation of ndigbo must be the Presidency and not vice president because apart from the fact that South East is the only region that have not occupied the Presidency in Nigeria, reelecting Buhari will provide the opportunity to enable the Igbo benefit from those things we complain about,” he added. On comments credited to Vice President Osinbajo and Bola Tinubu on presidency returning to South-West after Buhari second term, Okeke, said there were mere political wishes. “The desire to have the presidency is the earnest wish of every zone in the federation. However, that does not imply that the APC as a party does not know the right thing. “The statements credited to Tinubu and vice president were political wishes and strategy and they have the rights to that. “As a matter of fact, they were being good leaders fighting for their people the Yoruba race and bringing them together under the APC. “Every Nigerian, including President Buhari knows that it is the turn of the Igbo to produce the next President of Nigeria. “All we need to do is to put our house in order and vote for the re-election of president Buhari come February 16, and nobody would have the moral ground to raise any contrary argument. “Power is not given on a platter; you must show capacity by fighting for and winning it.”he said. South-east’s quest for power shift Page 20 Analysis Factors that worked for Obi’s emergence as Atiku’s running mate