The Buhari Youth Organisation (BYO), Lagos State Chapter, has advised all supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari and patriotic Nigerians to shun all forms of violence during and after general elections. The organisation’s State Coordinator and Secretary, Mr Abdul-Waheed Odunuga and Mr Kunle Aderibigbe respectively made the appeal on Friday in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Presidential and National Assembly Elections will hold on Saturday, while the governorship and House of Assembly elections will hold on March 2. According to them, Buhari’s loyalists must shun all acts that can lead to quarrel for the country to have a smooth electoral process. “The Buhari Youth Organisation, Lagos State chapter is calling on all Buharists (fanatical lovers of President Muhammadu Buhari) and patriotic Nigerians to shun all forms of violence. “With various indications and pollsters, also lovers of Buhari and the party storming of campaigns, President Muhammadu Buhari will be coasting to victory by God’s grace. “We have also done our bits as ardent supporters of the Buhari ideology and administration with youth and community sensitisation through seminars and community services. “We have also done our bits in enrollment of communities into agricultural cooperatives and Federal Government Social Investment Programmes and various house-to-house campaigns about the achievements of this administration,” the organisation said in statement. According to BYO, all Nigerians should engage in the electoral processes with love as Nigerians, remembering that Nigerians do not have any other country as their own. “We should not hesitate to calm, act promptly to forestall fights or any form of electoral disruption as this may hinder or prolong the free and fair election. “We also want to urge all Nigerians to please, come all out to partake in the elections. It is for the betterment of the nation,” the statement added. They described the recent birth of rail system in the country to depopulate the concentration of residents in Lagos State and boost commercial activities in the south-western states and other connected regions as laudable. The group said that only a leader that was focused on delivering economic development would take such decision passionately. They added that Buhari’s victory was already guaranteed with more acceptance and endorsements from the South-South and South-East regions. (NAN) 2019: Atiku cannot win in Ogun- Organisation CSOs urge voters to shun violence, apathy Buhari: Lagos APC holds rally, prepares for gov election