No fewer than four persons died and scores of others were injured  in a stampede at President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign rally at the Adokie Amiesimeke Sports stadium in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The victims were three aged women and a man. Witnesses said the incident occurred when the crowd surged towards the main pedestrian gate, but suffocated and were trampled upon. The injured were evacuated in two ambulances to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital for medical attention. When contacted, the spokesman of the state police command, DSP Nnamdi Omoni, said he had not confirmed the incident. Speaking at the rally, Buhari said he would not allow security agencies to intimidate Nigerians during the elections. Buhari, who regretted that the APC in the state was yet to be allowed to participate in the electoral process, asked party’s supporters in the state to remain patient and resolute. The president pledged to be accountable to all. He said: “I ask you to please bear with me that I’m going to be steadfast and I’m going to do justice to all Nigerians. Nigeria is one andwill remain one. All Nigerians would be respected and that they’re allowed to vote who they like across parties. Please, have faith that I’m going to be fair to all. I’ll not allow any institution to intimidate any constituency or anybody”. On the anti-corruption war, Buhari said he would remain consistent and resolute. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said: “Whatever PDP wants, we’ll give it to them. We’re equal to the task. I’ll be here till after the election”. Amaechi alleged that Governor Nyesom Wike betrayed him after he made him his Chief of Staff and nominated him as minister. “Whatever Wike wants on Saturday, we’ll give him. Whatever the PDP wants in Rivers, we’ll give them. Your Excellency, I’m not going to Abuja again from here. In 2015, the army attempted to arrest me as a sitting governor. We’ll battle him to the last. Today, we’ll sing like the Ibo sings. On Saturday, they should get ready. We’re ready for them. In 2015, they used federal and state institutions against us. They killed and maimed our leaders. They killed our supporters and beheaded them. They used the courts against us,” he said. The national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, asked Nigerians not to vote the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, because of his promise to devalue the naira and give amnesty to looters.  Buhari launches campaign, says Jonathan, PDP  ruined Nigeria Buhari  group visits  injured Hausa residents in Rivers Amaechi’s long, snaky path to APC