Governor of Kaduna State Malam Nasir el-Rufai has disclosed an ongoing collaboration between the state government and Dangote Group to build an ultra-modern Peugeot Auto Assembly plant in the state capital. The governor, who made the disclosure during an interaction with the Organized Private Sector (OPS) and Business Membership Organisations (BMOs) in Kaduna, said the plan superseded his initial intention to buy over Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN) plant in Kaduna. Governor El-Rufai said he offered to pay N11 billion for PAN through the Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) but his bid was frustrated so he had to abandon it and seek other means to industrialise the state. He said the effort to industrialise Kaduna took him to France where he negotiated to have a brand new 21st century vehicle assembly plant at one third the price he was offering to buy PAN. He said when the new plant comes on stream it would not only produce cars but also assemble other special vehicles like trucks, pickup vans and other heavy duty vehicles while it will also bring down the cost of cars such that using tricycles for  intra-city travels would no longer be necessary. “We are also collaborating with Dangote Group, and would soon setup a new Peugeot automobile plant to produce trucks and other automobile products that would be less expensive and more affordable to the people. “We are going to phase out Keke Napep and replace it with taxi cabs to be assembled by the plant,” he said. The governor, who also spoke on efforts to revive textile industries in the state, said his government was concluding arrangement with Chinese investors who have indicated willingness to invest $200 million on a 4000 hectare land for a modern plant. He said the current administration in Kaduna State initiated policies and reforms that have made the state the number one as opposed to number 24 in 2014 in the Ease of Doing Business in the country. He said the state government has reviewed its tax laws to enable operators with a registered business name in the state to pay as and when due. Peugeot Nigeria bounces back Why Kaduna APC leaders want Buhari, El-Rufai re-elected ... Dangote to up investments