Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Dr Dakuku Peterside has advocated for the inclusion of more African women in operations in the maritime sector. The DG said that is in line with the global focus on enhancing the role of women in the maritime and shipping sector. He also announced the agency’s readiness to support initiatives aimed at getting more African women involved in the industry. Peterside stated this at the weekend when the president of the Women’s International Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA), Ghana, Jemilat Mahamah, paid him a courtesy visit at the NIMASA headquarters in Lagos. He pledged that NIMASA would sponsor a high-powered delegation to the 6th WISTA Africa Region Conference holding in Accra from April 2 to 4. According to him, the theme of the conference, ‘The role of Women in Harnessing the Potential of Africa’s Blue Economy’, coincides with the focus of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) this year, which is, ‘Empowering Women in the Maritime Community’. The director general said, “Globally, the focus in the maritime industry today is how to get more women involved in the sector, whether as seafarers, ship owners, etc. So every effort to encourage the participation of women in the sector is supported by NIMASA. You can count on our support.” He added, “It is interesting that this year is dedicated by the IMO to empowering women in the maritime sector, specifically, shipping. Your conference coincides with the thematic thrust of the IMO this year. Therefore, it is very easy for us to align with the global agenda of the international maritime community and support your initiative of hosting the continent in Accra. “You can count on the support of NIMASA and, by extension, Nigeria. We believe and support everything that would give women a role in the maritime sector. There is no sector that would exclude 50 per cent of the population and expect that sector to thrive. If we exclude women, we are excluding 50 per cent of our population from benefitting in the economic activities in the maritime sector,” Dakuku said. He said the focus of the WISTA conference also accorded with current efforts by African leaders to create economic activities in the continent by maximising the benefits of the blue economy. Earlier, the president of WISTA Ghana emphasised the place of the 45-year-old organisation in the maritime world. “We basically promote women in the shipping industry, and we mentor the young and upcoming ones,” Mahamah said of WISTA, which got observer status at IMO last year and has a membership of about 3,500 women in the maritime industry from across over 40 countries. NIMASA seeks establishment of maritime development bank Maritime sector catalyst for Nigeria’s industrialisation – NIMASA Maritime sector has grown tremendously – NIMASA DG