The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Plateau state and current governor, Simon Lalong, has called on the people of the state to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming general elections. Speaking during his Plateau South Senatorial district/zone campaign rally held at the central stadium in Shendam Local Government Area, Lalong said his administration inherited unpaid salaries of workers, insecurity and other maladministration from the previous administration which has left the state more divided than united. The governor commended the people for coming out enmasse to received President Buhari during the Presidential rally in Jos, the state capital, adding that to cap it up, they should come out to vote massively for the President and all APC candidates during the February 16 and March 2, 2019 elections. He said: “We came to Government in 2015 and met unpaid salaries of workers/pensioners and insecurity. We cleared the salaries through the bail-out provided by President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government and settle the insecurity that the state went through. “Today some people are saying that they will bring a retired General to come and fixed the security of the state, you should reject them because it was the PDP that brought the insecurity, hunger and religious war in the state; we should not go back to the dark days.” Highlight of the occasion was the defection of a former minister of Trade and Industry, Hon. Josephine Tapgun, from the PDP to the APC. Receiving the decamped, the governor said a level playing ground would be provided for all members of the party no matter their status in the party. In her remarks, Hon. Tapgun said she was attracted to the APC due to the achievements of President Buhari and Governor Lalong in all ramifications especially the fight against insecurity, corruption and poverty. The Plateau State Chairman of the APC, Hon. Latep Dabang, said Buhari and Lalong have worked to bring sanity to the state following the numerous crises that has engulfed the state over time. Dabang, who also represented former Governor Joshua Dariye, delivered Dariye’s message to the people. In his message, he urged them to vote President Buhari, Governor Lalong and all APC candidates during the  election because the APC has brought more development to Plateau than any other party. Plateau PDP alleges planned ‘crackdown on media’ PDP’s mistakes in Plateau no longer a factor — Sec Governorship contests that will shake 2019