The National Assembly candidates of the PDP in Borno State yesterday in Maiduguri announced their total rejection of the presidential and National Assembly elections in the state, alleging gross violations of the electoral law throughout the process. They called on the INEC Chairman and the Resident Electoral Commissioner to declare the elections in the state null and void and, therefore, cancel it or risk being cancelled at the court of law. “We are rejecting the entire outcome because the entire process has been violated ab initio,” Senator Muhammadu Abva-Aji, PDP senatorial candidate for Borno Central, flanked by five others representing all, said, arguing that the law says if such situation obtains the election shall be null and void even if concluded. They said even if they had won the elections they would rejected them because the process had been violated ab initio. “Section 22 of the Electoral Law says that elections shall be conducted at the Polling Units, the votes counted instantly and copies of the results served all the party agents, the Electoral officers, the security agents, and then pasted on the walls of the polling unit location for everyone to see. But in Borno State, none of the results were announced at the PUs according to law, but taken instead to ward and LG collation centres. This is a flagrant violation of the law,” they argued. The aggrieved candidates also cited instances of over voting, arguing: “in Dikwa the APC candidate of the Dikwa/Mafa/Konduga fedetal constituency was declared as polling 19,304, while his PDP candidate polled 1359; but the total number of registered voters there is 18,245.” They said they notified the REC and the INEC Chairman to check the validity of their claims and cancel the elections in the state accordingly, or risk getting them cancelled at the election tribunals. “We are rejecting whatever is the outcome of the just concluded presidential and national assembly elections in Borno State because it has blatantly violated the law at all stages,” they stressed. Borno PDP candidates reject elections Osun Election: PDP rejects rerun,heads to court over INEC’s declaration 2011: Losers shunning election tribunals