Eight people including a young girl on Sunday lost their lives, while an expectant mother and a boy sustained injuries in a road crash, involving a car and a truck at Ewekoro inbound Abeokuta on old Lagos-Abeokuta expressway in Ogun state. It was learnt that the accident occurred at about 12:50pm today when the driver of the Blue Toyota Corolla Sport marked AKD 649 FP, lost control of the wheels and rammed into a stationary truck. Seven occupants of the vehicle – four male and three female adults reportedly died on the spot, while a young girl was confirmed dead later in the hospital due to injuries sustained in the crash. The Spokesperson of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, told Daily Trust that occupants of the ill-fated vehicle were probably members of a family, heading to Igboora in Oyo state. Akinbiyi who blamed the accident on excessive speeding and lost of control, said the driver was drunk. He disclosed that remains of the deceased have been deposited at the mortuary of General Hospital, Ifo, while the injured pregnant woman have been referred to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi-Aba, Abeokuta for treatment. Akinbiyi said “We learnt the Toyota Corolla Sport vehicle was inbound Abeokuta on the Old Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway when the accident happened. “The driver who was drunk, lost control of the vehicle due to excessive speeding and rammed into a stationery trailer parked along the road, killing 7 persons (four male, three female) inside the vehicle. “The Post Crash Report on the accident indicates that the pregnant woman among the survivors has been referred to FMC, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta, while the injured girl had been confirmed dead. “Though the driver of the trailer was not in vehicle when the accident happened; he later made himself available for arrest and he has taken to Ewekoro Divisional Police Station with the accidental vehicles involved.” Accident: 5 die, 2 injured on Sagamu/Abeokuta expressway 5 die in auto accident on Sagamu-Abeokuta expressway Truck crushes commercial motorcycle rider, passenger to death