The Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) has said the infrastructural development being witnessed across the country under the All Progressives Congress (APC) led administration was impressive and laudable. The leader of the BSO tour, Dr. Tom Ohikere, disclosed this while speaking in Osogbo, Osun State after inspecting some federal and state government projects executed by the APC-led administration in the state. The team inspected Ataoja High School,  Fakunle Mega School, Federal Government Housing Estate, Osogbo, the 17.4 km Osogbo Road, the 30km Gbongan-Akoda road and the Osogbo-Ikirun dual carriage road. The group which is championing the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari said the ruling party deserved commendation from Nigerians. Ohikere said the media  tour became necessary to set the record straight given the postulation by the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the claims of APC administration infrastructural on development was not real. He said the team was in the state to have on-the-spot assessment of some infrastructures in Osun state and South West as a whole. Ohikere maintained that the Buhari-led administration, more than successive governments in Nigeria, has invested so much in infrastructural and human capital development and thus deserves commendation. According to him, “We are on a tour of physical inspection of some of the Federal and State capital projects embarked upon by the APC. Of course,  we are using Osun state as a case study of infrastructural development in the South West. “Being a victim of huge abandoned projects during the PDP era, it is rather surprising that a state with that terrible infrastructural experience has now become one of the leading states with infrastructures and a reference point amongst the federating units. “There is no doubt that the APC government has invested so much in infrastructure, which cut across all segments of the social structure, namely: education, agriculture and health among others. “Obviously, this great feat of APC is worthy of commendation by Nigerians, it is also a greatest lobby for the government to seek for continuity despite array of misinformation from our detractors, especially the main opposition party, PDP.” “Because infrastructural advancement has become a veritable performance index among the electorate, and presently a campaign issue, we have decided to go round the country to make our claims verifiable and authenticate facts.” “I believe the APC-led administration needs a pat on the back from Nigerians; we need to be re-elected for providing basic infrastructural needs for the development of the nation and welfare of the people.” “We have really done well in all ramifications, we need commendation, we need to be appreciated”, Ohikere said. Customs CG, Hammed Ali, takes Buhari's re-election campaign to Karamajiji Buhari's re-election now a national movement - Delta BSO APC Broom Platform appoints Gov. Badaru National Patron