The Director General of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign and Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, on Thursday said the youth will get 40 percent appointment if the party wins this Saturday’s election. Saraki said this while speaking at the Kwara Central youth town hall meeting in Ilorin today. Saraki, who answered questions from the youth on various issues, said that they should not make the wrong choice of electing those that do not understand the dynamics of business and private sector. He reiterated that the administration of the party will be youth-driven. He said that Atiku Abubakar has private sector background that is capable of attracting investment and generating employment. “Saturday is a date with destiny. You should not be intimidated by presence of security agents. They will be there to provide security and protection to you. “With your support, we will win and cause a turnaround in our national life. In 2015, number of unemployment people was 10 million, and it’s now 23 million. The present administration does not understand how to cause change in people and economy. We all know government cannot provide job for everyone. It is the private sector that will do it. “So, I want you to go out on Saturday and elect Atiku that understands private sector. Don’t make mistake of voting for those that do not understand the dynamics because wrong choice can spell doom for the country. “We are no seasonal politicians that only reach out to you during elections. We’ve been with you all the time, providing infrastructure, health, education and empowerment”, he said. Also speaking, the director general of the PDP campaign in Kwara state, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman, said the essence of the meeting with the youth was to correct some impression against the Senate President and elucidate achievements made so far to improve the welfare of the people. Sulaiman said the youth should not be dissuaded to vote for politicians that would not be able to provide dividends of democracy to them, saying that they should vote in the Senate President to retain the number three seat in the state with attendant opportunities. The Senate President also re-echoed his message to the youths at another session with women from Kwara Central at the Metropolitan Square, Ilorin. He told the women who filed out in their thousands not to be intimidated by the heavy presence of security operatives, but should come out on Saturday and vote massively for Atiku and all the candidates of the PDP. 2019: Yoruba Council of Youths set agenda for Atiku Atiku, Kwankwaso, Saraki: How ‘big’ declarations will affect PDP Atiku promises to improve agriculture, commerce if elected