Governor Rochas Okorocha has said the Igbo have the better option of voting for President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday, for a second term and exercise their right of asking for the presidency in 2023. He said that anything short of that, Ndigbo would have to wait till 2031 to have a shot at the presidency. The governor, who spoke while campaigning for Buhari’s re-election at Okigwe zone and Owerri zone on Thursday, regretted that some Igbo politicians are campaigning to deceive the Igbos again as they did in 2015. He expressed worries that some Igbo politicians have become tools in the hands of some politicians outside Igbo land who are not disposed to Igbo presidency. The governor said, “On Saturday, if Igbos support Buhari and Buhari wins, in 2023, Igbos will have the right to demand for Igbo Presidency. Those who love Igbo nation must vote for President Buhari because if we miss this chance, we may not get the presidency even by 2023 or 2027 or 2031. The time is right for the Igbo nation to play the right politics so as to have a clear chance by 2023”. He said, “Some people especially our brothers are campaigning now against President Buhari saying that he is a herdsman, etc. “You can remember in 2015, I was telling the Igbos, Cast your vote for Buhari because President Buhari will win with or without the votes of the Igbos. I was called all sorts of derogatory names. Some said I was going to Islamize the whole Igbos. Is Igbo land Islamized today?” He added, “Igbos today are playing politics with the mindset of a trader, thinking only of the immediate benefits unlike other tribes that are playing real politics. “My people listen to me and listen real good, whatever I tell you to do, do it as it will profit us. I am telling you today that Buhari will win. “On Imo State governorship, the President advised that we all vote according to our conscience. Conscience in Igbo is‘mee uche gi’, which translates to voting for Uche Nwosu. “Uche Nwosu is the only credible person amongst all those vying for the position. He has no dent or skeleton in his cupboard. His only sin is that he came from a poor background and by the grace of God married my daughter. Today, AA and APC have joined to form what is called perfect alliance.” In his speech, the governorship candidate of Action Alliance, (AA) Uche Nwosu, said the APC and AA members in the state will vote for President Buhari 100 percent, adding that voting him for a second term would be the best for Nigerians and Igbos in particular. South-east’s quest for power shift 2023 is upstaging 2019 Page 20 Analysis