Top functionaries in the Delta State Government have provided free buses from Abuja and Lagos to Delta State for prospective voters to come and exercise their franchise this Saturday. The transportation tagged “BusesForDemocracy”, is being sponsored by Rt. Hon. Festus Agas (Delta State SSG), Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborewheri (DTHA Speaker), Hon. Hilary Obi Ibegbulem (Principal Secretary to the Governor), Hon. Jude Sinebe (Commissioner for Higher Education), Hon. John Nani (Commissioner for Environment) and Hon. Peter Mrakpor (Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice). Others are: Hon. Ayemidejor Austine (Special Project Director, Asaba Airport), Hon. James Aguoye (Commissioner for Works), Hon. Ochor Ochor (Immediate past DESOPADEC Commissioner and Ukwuani House of Assembly aspirant), Hon. Nnamdi Ezechi (DESOPADEC Commissioner) and Fejiro Oliver (Editor in-Chief of SecretReporters News). In a joint statement, the top aides in the Ifeanyi Okowa administration said: “We feel your pains and disappointment of the postponed election. We feel the pains of the money you spent coming to Delta State to come and vote. “We wear the shoes. We understand your enthusiasm to make your vote count and the willingness to come and vote again come this Saturday. This is why we have decided to provide fifteen(15) Delta Line vehicles to bring eligible voters free of charge on Friday to Delta State for the election”, the statement read. The statement further assured that the gesture does not seek to influence the voters on who or which party to vote, but rather to “place humanity and country first before self.” “We do not care who you vote for. We do not care if you vote for PDP or APC. We do not care if you cast your vote for Atiku, Buhari or Sowore. National Duty First”, the statement emphasised. To get on board BusesForDemocracy trip, a commuter would go to Delta Line parks in Abuja and Lagos on Friday morning, show your PVC and be allocated a seat in a new branded Delta Line vehicles. The commuter is further requested to snap a selfie in the bus and tag the providers in social media post with the hash tag #BusesForDemocracy. According to the BusForDemocracy sponsors, they have provided comfort on the trip and would bear whatever the cost, as over N3 million has been committed on the arrangement. The statement said the return journey for Sunday will be communicated on Saturday evening. Winners of the PDP Delta State House of Assembly primaries 21 eye Mimiko’s job in Ondo AIG Lakanu appointed Force secretary