The All Progressives Congress ((APC) governorship candidate in Kwara state, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has said he would repeal the law granting pensions to former governors and free up resources for the masses if elected into office. He urged the people to not only vote for him but for all the APC candidates for the House of Assembly in the March 9 elections in the state. Abdulrazak said this during his campaign stop at Omu Aran in Kwara South and at Pategi in Kwara North. He said, “We need to change some terrible laws. We’ll repeal that obnoxious pension law when we get to office. “It’s a privilege to become a governor of a state. It is dubious for anyone to become governor and then earn a pension more than people who served the state for their entire lives. We can’t take that anymore. But we need enough lawmakers to push through the repeal of the offensive law.” The Kwara state pension law for former governorship and former deputy governorship has continued to raise eyebrows, with the masses and civil servants often decrying it as unjust and a rip-off to the state. Speaking at the rally, AbdulRazaq also said his administration will invest in security, local economy and youth empowerment in a bid to stamp out thuggery and bring government closer to the grassroots. “We need to work seriously. We need to revamp the economy of Kwara state. We need to bring jobs to our people. We need to address the security issues. “Instead of funding police, they were arming thugs. We will help the police by offering assistance they need to secure our communities,” he added. He also vowed to join the efforts to grant full autonomy to the local government areas, insisting that is the only way to grow the local economy and halt the unhealthy exodus of people to the cities. Daily Trust reports that AbdulRazaq is on a fresh round of campaign tours of all the senatorial districts of the state, beginning with the Kwara South on Tuesday and Wednesday and Pategi in the northern axis of the state. We'll end diversion of local government funds in Kwara – Abdulrazaq How governors are planning soft-landings for themselves Belgore’s defection tightens Kwara 2015 race