The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, said the crowd and warmth reception he got from supporters in Yobe made him want to stay in the state. The former vice president stated this on Wednesday during his campaign rally at the August 27 Stadium, Damaturu. He told supporters to come out en masse and vote for him considering that the northeast has not produced any President right from Nigeria’s independence. “Atiku is your own, vote for me. This will be the first time that Northeast would produce a president so, you shouldn’t allow this opportunity to slip away,” he said. He warned security operatives against interfering in the election process, adding that their constitutional responsibility is to protect lives and property of people in the country. He advised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to rig election, and to ensure that the elections are free, fair and credible. The former vice president said that the All Progressive Congress (APC) had failed in delivering its campaign promises to Yobe, Borno and other parts of the country. “You should vote for all the PDP candidates and guard your votes for this change to happen. I really enjoyed my coming to Yobe, In fact, I wouldn’t want to leave the state now,” he said. He promised that, if elected, he would reconstruct the highway from Maiduguri, Damaturu up-to Potiskum. Atiku also seized the opportunity to condole people over the demise of an elder statesman and the PRP presidential candidate, Khalifa Hassan Yusuf, who died few days ago after protracted illness. The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, alleged that there was an impending plan to rig election using internally displaced persons. He urged youths to votes massively in favour of the PDP and promised that the party would create jobs for unemployed youths in the country. Secondus also advised the electorate to cast their votes and wait for their votes to be counted and recorded. The Atiku campaign train had arrived the August 27 Stadium, Damaturu  around 2:40pm and was received by PDP top notches including former Police Affairs Minister, Adamu Maina Waziri; PDP gubernatorial candidate in the state, Umar Iliya Damagum, and the state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Sani Inuwa Nguru. Atiku also arrived in a company of the PDP Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, his Northeast coordinator, governor Ibrahim Dankwambo, Alhaji Buba Galadima and others. Yobe never shifts loyalty from Buhari but… 2019: Dankwambo declares support for Atiku 2015: Supporters want Atiku to defect to APC