In continuation of its desire to promote Africa’s economic development, Globacom has announced its support for the 2019 Africa CEO Forum. Globacom’s support for the continental initiative was made known by its Executive Vice Chairman, Mrs. Bella Disu, who has held consultations with the Forum organisers, a statement from Glo said yesterday. Mrs. Disu said that Globacom was pleased to partner with the organisers to provide a networking platform for decision makers to identify ways to improve intra-African trade and investments. Globacom is the 2019 apex Diamond Partner of the gathering. She disclosed that Globacom was backing the forum as a testimony to its desire to support initiatives that nurture Africa’s economic potential. “Africa is rich in business diversity and, when properly connected, African businesses can make greater contributions to economic expansion and human development,” Globacom’s EVC stated. “Globacom is intentional about fostering an environment for African businesses to thrive,” she added. The foremost annual international meeting for executives and investors in Africa brings together Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), international investors, experts and high-level policy makers, and features discussions that mobilise African businesses to champion private sector-led growth while building sustainable organisations. The 2019 edition of the Forum is billed to hold in Kigali, Rwanda, from March 25 to 26. Themed ‘Open Africa: from continental treaties to business realities’, and will feature over 40 panels, private-public workshops, and case studies. Mrs. Disu, who will participate in this year’s forum and chair the Women in Business Initiative, added that in today’s global world and with tech-enabled access to knowledge and opportunities, there has never been a better time for women to look around and see other women who influence them. According to Jeune Afrique Media Group and Rainbow Unlimited, the forum will “unite its 2000 participants around a transformation agenda… What priorities must be identified to boost the level of intra-African trade and investment? What must a united Africa do to better protect its interests and industries? How can we mobilise the private sector around cross-border infrastructure and logistical projects?” The 2018 edition had 70 countries represented by heads of governments, 1500 participants, and 700 CEOs. Guests included former Nigerian President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; President Alassane Ouattara of Côte d’Ivoire; President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana; Mr. Wale Tinubu, Group Chief Executive Officer of Oando PLC; Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija, Vice Chairman of Famfa Oil; and Nadia Fettah, Managing Director of Saham Finances. Glo pledges support for research in Africa ‘Glo’s role in telecoms receives FG’s commendation’ Our stakeholders, our strength –  Globacom