Swift Networks Limited has emerged as one of the 360 companies to inspire Africa in 2019 published by the London Stock Exchange Group. The survey which went through rigorous scrutiny by subject matter experts across the continent saw Swift Networks emerging as one of the finalists in a keenly contested selection process. The ‘Companies to Inspire Africa 2019’ report from the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) picked out 360 high-performing companies for recognition, spanning 32 countries and a range of sectors with the report launched recently at the London Stock Exchange. Although over 5,000 companies were nominated for inclusion, the final list was selected based on set criteria such as growth, transparency, and innovation. Reacting to the news, the Managing Director of Swift Networks Limited, Mr. Charles Anudu expressed the company’s appreciation to all stakeholders for their continued partnership over the years which he said has been largely responsible for the success of the brand in the Nigerian market. He noted that 2018 was a very positive year for the company despite a difficult recession the country was emerging from. He said the company in addition to providing excellent broadband internet service to its teeming enterprise and consumer customers launched various segmental value propositions including swift unlimited and swift SME to address the specific needs of certain segments. While swift unlimited targets heavy internet users with need for streaming a lot of movies, music and games, swift SME wraps its arms around the peculiar needs of SMEs who are poorly catered for by the telecommunications industry. The offering includes high speed internet and low cost business software on a rental basis as this category of customers find it steep to acquire and maintain the ownership of the requisite software to run their businesses and grow. Phase3 named among ‘companies to inspire Africa’ in 2019 ‘Why LADOL made London Stock Exchange list’ Nedbank to pay $493.4m for 20% stake in Ecobank