The Abia State N-Power Focal Person and an aide to Abia Governor on Social Investment, Chinenye Nwogu has exonerated the Abia State Governor, and himself from a video trending online of an alleged fake election result in favour of PDP reportedly found in custody of one of the N-POWER beneficiaries in the State. Addressing the press in Umuahia, Nwogu refuted the allegation, describing the incident as a scam and blackmail against the Abia State government and his person. Narrating his own side of the story,he revealed that last Thursday a bulk SMS purportedly sent from the office of the Special Adviser to the President on N-POWER asking N-POWER beneficiaries in the State to appear at the campaign office of the APC factional Governorship candidate,Uche Ogah for a meeting. According to him, the office of the president in Abuja confirmed that no such meeting was convened. One of the beneficiaries of the N power programme was said to have gone to the venue, in company of other beneficiaries, where they were manhandled and made to call the N-Power Ambassador Mr. Felix Obisike to the place and he (Felix Obisike) was lured and manhandled too to ensure he indicted him(Chinenye Nwogu) and the Governor of Abia State. Nwogu said the sheet of paper found in Felix’s custody was pulled from one of the pocket suits of the abductors who forced him and made him make confessional statements. Mr. Chinenye Nwogu decried the situation where the abductors have become interrogators instead of Police or DSS. He described the incident as disheartening and a blackmail calling on security agencies to immediately invade the campaign headquarters, interrogate the APC Gubernatorial candidate for impersonating the presidency. He also called on the Abia State government to rise to the occasion to check the ugly situation of having a torture centre where innocent persons are tortured and harassed as there were over 20 armed men in the campaign office at the time of the incident. He said he would seek redress in court. Meanwhile, Obisike is in the protective custody of the DSS as at the time of this report. Abia: Defections, realignments may change voting pattern Atiku and  Kalu: The fall back options N-Power:  Drama in Ekiti as pro-Buhari, Fayose factions hold rallies