The Federal Government has approved the establishment of Bayelsa Medical University, Yenagoa as the second public medical university in the country. The Executive Secretary of National Universities Commission (NUC) Prof Abubakar Adamu Rasheed yesterday at the presentation of the letter said the Bayelsa Medical University will be the 48th state owned university in the country, 2nd public and the 4th medical university in the country. Prof Rasheed who noted that the recognition of the new university makes the total of 170 universities in the country. While commending the Bayelsa government for the initiative which brings the universities in the state to three, he urged other state governments to invest in the cause of education. He advised the universities to reinvent their institutions by making them universal system in order to attract people of different race, religion and ethnic groups. He said without that they will continue to ask why their universities are not among the highly ranked in the world. He said many Nigerian universities are losing universal character because they are assuming religious and ethnic sentiments where most people insist that a Vice Chancellor must come from the community or state. Speaking, Governor Seriaka Dickson who presented the documents containing the law establishing the Medical varsity, master plan and the Academic brief to the Executive Secretary of NUC said establishing the university has become mandatory going by the fact that enrolment figure in the state has increased. He said the Bayelsa Medical University is going to be a fee paying university that will provide quality education to Nigerians and reduce education tourism. The Governor however noted that tertiary education cannot afford the luxury of being cheaper than primary and secondary schools, saying most people do not want to invest in higher education in the country but prefer to take their children abroad. FG warns private varsities against unwholesome practice Gov Dickson appoints officers for Bayelsa medical university NUC approves new varsity for Bayelsa