The All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State on Friday night traded words over the disruption of the APC governorship rally in Gbajigbma town of Guma local government area of Benue State. Daily Trust gathered that the APC governorship candidate, Barr. Emmanuel Jime and his running mate, Dr. Sam Ode, were in the rural town for the continuation of their ongoing state-wide campaign when the thugs in large numbers invaded the venue, shot sporadically and caused the people to ran in different direction. Sequel to the development, the Jime/Ode campaign organisation who were saddened explained at a press conference in Makurdi, that the party secured the permission of all security agencies in the state before embarking on the exercise which was brought to abrupt end by the invaders. Secretary of the Jime/Ode campaign organisation, Dr. Eugene Aliegba, alleged that the first sign of trouble occurred when armed militia he alleged belonged to PDP in the state mobilised during the morning hours to stop their boys (APC) from arranging the venue for the campaign. Aliegba noted that the police were alert to the scene following the scuffle which ensued between the boys, stressing that two persons were arrested in the process while the security operatives took charge of the environment to enable the party hold its rally. But, he added that unknowingly to the APC, the alleged armed militia only retreated and mobilised to the venue of the campaign when Jime and his team arrived and started shooting sporadically as well as throwing stones such that everyone at the gathering took to their heels. In a swift reaction, however, the PDP in a statement, alleged that the APC thugs in its latest spate of violence unleashed terror on its party’s supporters in Gbajigmba. State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Bemgba Iortyom, stated that, “Eyewitnesses report that the thugs who were led by an APC’s candidate for Makurdi/Guma Federal Constituency in the coming elections, violently assaulted PDP supporters and also burnt down campaign materials, mostly billboards promoting the incumbent governor, Samuel Ortom. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms such lawlessness by APC in the state as it falls short of the acceptable standards for the thriving of multi-party democracy anywhere.” Meanwhile the both political parties have urged the police to arrest the perpetrators of the violence in order to ensure a free, fair and credible elections in the days ahead. On his part, the State Commissioner of Police, Omololu Bishi, told newsmen at the time of this report that he was yet to get details of what happened from his men at the scene. Benue governorship: Jime distances self from Fulani group's endorsement Reps eyeing governorship: How far can they go? I’m not being sponsored by Miyetti Allah – Jime