Mr Lawrence Ijeh, Special Assistant to the Delta State Governor on Youth Development, has been shot dead by gunmen in Ekpan community, Uvwie Local Government Area of the state. Ijeh, fondly called Ngozi, was killed on Friday night, inside his Toyota Camry Car, with registration number: EFR 965 SN in Ekpan. The deceased was found in a pool of his blood on Saturday morning. The incident caused serious tension in the community as security operatives took over the area to maintain law and order. The shops in the area also remained closed as a result of the incident. When contacted, Mr Innocent Akpotedja-Adjenughure, the Ekpan Community Chairman, said, “yes, Ngozi was assassinated yesterday (Friday).” Governor Ifeanyi Okowa condemned the killing in very strong terms. Governor Okowa, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, yesterday in Asaba, said the governor was deeply saddened by the death of his aide. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta State, I mourn the death of Mr Lawrence Ngozi Ijei, who was my aide until his untimely demise. I condole with his wife and family and urge security agencies to investigate the unfortunate incident with a view to bringing the perpetrators to justice. “We have alerted the security agencies of some disturbing security situation in parts of the state and wonder what they are doing because these information have been available to them”. “We urge Deltans to remain peaceful and maintain the existing peace we have built in the last three and half years,” he said. The acting Police Public Relations (PPRO), in Delta, ASP Oriseweje Chuks, when contacted, said,”I am still investigating the matter; let me reach the DPO in Ekpan and get back to you.” In a related development, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Ika federal constituency, Mr Sebastian Okoh, said he escaped assassination when unknown gunmen invaded his residence and riddled the entire place with bullets. The candidate, while narrating the ordeal said he was sitting with members of his family when suddenly bullets start raining on his building, causing severe damage to windows and vehicles parked in and outside the compound. The former aide to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who resigned his appointment and joined the APC to vie for the House of Reps seat, alleged that the attempt to kill him and his household was to put a stop to the “liberation agenda”. While thanking God for saving his life and his family, he appealed to his for supporters for calm. On the heels of the assassination attack, indigenes of Umunede community in Ika North East Local Government Area, hometown of Sebastian Okoh, took to the streets to express their anger. But the Agbor Area Police Commander, ACP  Cordelia Ikejiani visited the community and  the politician’s compound and assured that the police will carry out detailed investigation to rein in the assailants. She appealed for peace in the area. Gov. Okowa condemns killing of aide Okowa's aide shot dead over crisis in Uvwie Okowa faults closure of Federal Maritime University