The Nigerian Army, 2 Brigade headquarters, Uyo has promised to deal with all forms of political thuggery and electoral offences during the general elections. In a press release signed by the Assistant Director, Army Public Relations Officer, Major Bashir Jajira and made available to our correspondent in Uyo, the army encouraged citizens of the state to cast their votes in a peaceful manner. The Commander, 2 Brigade Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Nasiru Jega, commended the people for their cooperation so far. “As Nigerians go to the polls for the Presidential and National Assembly Elections on Saturday February 23, 2019, it is imperative to ensure that the exercise is carried out in the most peaceful manner in Akwa Ibom state. “Therefore, to ensure that the citizens in the state fully exercise their franchise in an atmosphere devoid of molestation, harassment or intimidation, Headquarters 2 Brigade Nigerian Army in conjunction with sister security agencies has resolved to provide a secure and peaceful environment for the conduct of 2019 general elections. “Headquarters 2 Brigade therefore, implored all law abiding citizens to desist from any act capable of breaching peace before, during or after the general elections. We urged all eligible voters to go to their polling units and cast their votes without fear of intimidation. “The Command also vows to decisively deal with culprits of political thuggery in the areas of ballot box snatching, arson and other electoral offences in the state in accordance with the law. “The Headquarters 2 Brigade Nigerian Army Situation Room contact phone numbers for the 2019 general election are as follows: 08149731114, 08062212419 and 07032032944. “The general public are requested to send text or WhatsApp messages, videos, pictures and audio on election violence as well as other complaints to the above mentioned numbers,” the statement read. Army commissions 63 Brigade, flags off "Operation Egwu-Eke" in Asaba Exercise Egwu Eke III: Army warns Sokoto politicians against interference Buratai inaugurates 63 brigade, flags- off operation Python Dance in Asaba