Akwa Ibom state is seeking to be fully represented on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) after the tenure of the interim management committee expires. The state which is the highest producer of crude oil in the country recently concluded its tenure with Nsima Ekere as the Managing Director of the commission who resigned his position to run as the state’s governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking in his country home, Ita Enang, Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly matters (Senate) said the state would be demanding for the position of Executive Director, Finance, Administration or Executive Director projects. He revealed that the state would no longer be contesting for the post of Managing Director, having served for two years when Bassey Dan Abia was MD and completed the remaining two years with the tenure of Nsima Ekere adding that the state would demand for other executive positions. “Where we are now is to draw attention of the federal government to the fact that Akwa Ibom state cannot be left out. It is an interim thing though; we are going to take our position. “We are not going to have the post of Managing Director again. We are not going to have Chairman again, Chairmanship had moved from us to Bayelsa state and from Bayelsa to Cross River, because the Chairmanship position rotates on alphabetical order. It has moved to Cross River state, and is now going to perhaps Delta state. “Delta cannot have a Chairman and have the Managing Director. We are going to demand for Executive Director, Finance. So we will be contending for the post of Executive Director, Finance and Administration or Executive Director projects,” he said. Enang, who spoke when APC stakeholders declared  their support for Bassey Etim, the party’s candidate for Uyo Senatorial District, said the people only reaffirmed their faith in an existing agreement in the area which seeks to ensure that no federal constituency in the senatorial district should serve more than two terms in the Senate. “The declaration is saying that Uyo senatorial district had taken a decision that no federal constituency should go to the Senate more than two terms. “Etinan federal constituency through Senator Effiong Bob did two terms. Itu federal constituency has done two terms.  I did one term and Senator Bassey Albert Akpan is doing the second term which he is completing the term I had started. “The senate seat moves to Uyo federal constituency to keep the agreement and the accord. “I would have taken the Senate ticket because it was in my hands. But I had to keep the agreement that everybody agreed to. I have also thought that it would be unwise to leave the job of the Presidency at this time. The important thing is that it should move to Uyo federal constituency,” he said. Nsima Ekere and the Akwa-Ibom governorship race A’Ibom N/Assembly members hail Buhari’s feats Court throws out suit challenging Buhari’s powers to appoint NDDC MD