The Deputy Director General (Coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (APCCO), Arch. Waziri Bulama, says President Muhammadu Buhari told his campaigners to work towards ensuring free, fair and credible elections for the votes of Nigerians to count. Arch. Bulama, who said this on Sunday in Abuja while fielding questions from journalists, said the council had embarked on engaging sensitisation and mobilisation by reaching out to Nigerians in all the nooks and crannies of the country. The key campaigner, who said the APC expected more votes from the South West and North West because of its governors’ presence and higher voting population, added that the council would fight for every vote by avoiding the temptation of taking things for granted. “The APC is a national party, very strong throughout the country but most dominant in the North West and South West and more clearly we expect to have more votes,” he said. He added, “Our campaign is carried out in a multi-pronged manner. All the stakeholders are engaged in reaching out to Nigerians in all parts of the country to explain to them, first to come out and vote and secondly to understand and appreciate the achievements and efforts of President  Buhari and the APC since 2015 when Nigerians gave us the trust to manage the country. “Our aim and target in the campaign has been to ensure that the vote counts. We are taking Nigerians very seriously and working hard to get every vote because the instruction Buhari gave to the campaign council is to ensure free, fair and credible elections. He wants the votes of Nigerians to count. “His instruction is that we should be civil, very descent and respectful of Nigerians, reach out to them because their votes which must count will determine who govern various strata of the Nigeria society including the presidency. “That is why our campaign is carried out on many tracks and as you can see, the party is up and doing. The presidency, the presidential campaign council are also up and doing. The president himself has been visiting and engaging the states. The vice president is also on the street visiting Nigerians in their homes, markets and shops. “The wife of the president launched a very strong campaign exercise called Women and Youth Campaign Council. She with other first ladies are equally reaching out to Nigerians. We also have thousands of voluntary groups and associations working hard to mobilise support for the presidential candidate. “We have thousands of voluntary groups registered with the Buhari Support Organisation. We also have other thousands registered with the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). All hands are on deck to reach out to Nigerians. “We are very happy with the response we have received from Nigerians and as you can see, there is a great deal of enthusiasm around our campaigns, everywhere our leaders go out on the streets and on campaign grounds. And the response we get is not only happiness and appreciation but also gratitude.” We can’t stop foreigners from attending Buhari's campaign – Ribadu 2019: Akume urges Tiv people to vote Buhari Buhari inaugurates campaign council tomorrow