Barely five days to the 2019 general elections, the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Yobe has continued to receive thousands of defectors from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state The defectors, who included state chairmen, candidates and aspirants of governorship and senatorial positions under the PDP platform, were received and handed over APC flags during a state-wide campaign rally in Nguru, Gashua, Fune, Jakusko, Potiskum, Bursari and Tarmuwa local government areas. At the rally in Gashua, two former chairmen of the state’s chapter of the PDP, Lawan Gana karasuwa and Alhaji Hassan Kafayos, in company  of thousands of their supporters defected to APC and pledged to support the party’s candidates. Lawan Gana Karasuwa, who is the immediate past PDP chairman in the state, said he joined Hassan Kafayos and other PDP stalwarts that have shifted loyalty to APC, because of the confidence he has on the party’s leadership in Yobe and Nigeria. “I was attracted by the developmental projects executed by APC-led administrations at all levels of government. The choice of Hon Mai Mala as governorship candidate is another thing that endeared many of us to the party,” he said. At Nguru, the political allies and supporters of, a one time PDP gubernatorial candidate, late Usman Albishir, also defected to the APC and pledged to the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and the governorship candidate, Mai Mala Buni. The leader of the group,  Alhaji Abdullahi Balarabe, said thousands supporters of the late senator had formally defected to the APC to ensure the success of the party in the 2019 general elections. He said that politicians in the camp have agreed to move into the APC to boost the prospect of the party and cement the winning streak that Yobe zone C was known for the party. “Already, we have mobilised for voter cards collection and have now embarked on door-to-door awareness campaigns,” he said. In Jakusko, a former PDP senatorial candidate, Dr. Mairo Amshi, who also joined the party said during the rally at her constituency that she and her supporters left PDP to support APC. She said they would support APC to consolidate the strides it made in the past years both at state and national levels. “We pledge our support and loyalty to APC and, would work for the success of the party in the forthcoming general elections” she said. She expressed confidence that APC would provide more democratic dividends to the people including roads, economic empowerment programs, healthcare and education among others. Speaking while welcoming the defectors into the party the governorship candidate, Hon.  Mai Mala Buni, commended them for taking the right decision and assured them that he would consolidate the development foundation laid down by the former the leaders of the APC. “We will build on it to further promote affordable and accessible healthcare delivery, quality education and viable economic empowerment programs,” he said. Former PDP chairman, others decamp to APC in Yobe Yobe never shifts loyalty from Buhari but… APC awaits Buhari’s arrival for Lafia rally