Commissioner of Police Sanusi Buba recently assumed duty in charge of Katsina State Command following a major posting announced by the Force Headquarters. He took over CP Mohammed Wakili who was redeployed to Kano. Buba, until his posting as CP Katsina was the Deputy Commissioner of Police Department of Finance and Administration (DFA), Zone 7, Abuja. CP Sanusi Buba psc, hails from Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State.  He holds Bachelor of Arts Degree in Administration from  Ahmadu Bello University (A.B.U.), Zaria. He was enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force in 1990 as Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police.  Among his postings in the police were Area Commander Owo, Ondo State, Assistant Commissioner of Police Operations, Akwa-Ibom State, Area Commander Metro Abuja, Deputy Commissioner of Police Operations Oyo State Command among others. He has attended many courses within and outside the country among which were Intermediate Command Course, Senior Command Course, Operational Management Course, Organized Strategic Leadership Course – United Nations (UN).  He is also a member of International Association of Police Chiefs.  He is happily married with children. Buba has since assumed duty and in his maiden press briefing appealed to members of the public to partner with the police and give useful information, so that the police can serve them better. He then assured them that all information given will be treated with utmost confidentiality. “In the course of my policing career, I have served in various formations and Commands.  I intend to explore and exploit the prospects and experiences of my professional service to bring about quality police service to the people of Katsina state. “I have therefore come with tremendous goodwill, open mind, willingness to work and partner with all Katsina residents to ensure we make it safer, more secure, better and prosperous” he said He said under him the police would work within the ambit of the country’s  constitution. “We are going to deploy community policing strategy to reduce crime in the state and this we are going to achieve with honesty, professionalism, transparency and through dedication to duty. “I will build up on the existing synergy among sister security organizations, the government, traditional institutions, religious leaders and good people of Katsina state on the ongoing onslaught  against cattle rustling, kidnapping and armed banditry in the eight  frontline LGAs bordering Rugu Forest in Katsina state with Zamfara state” he said. The general public can reach him through GSM number 08035536596.   CP Musa Kimo takes over FCT Police Command FCT gets new police commissioner APC, PDP clash as police  redeploy commissioners