Seated along Independence way in Kaduna metropolis, 60-year-old  Hajiya Lami Inusa, said she  has been selling cooked assorted leaves for over 30years. According to the Zamfara state born mother of four, any woman who does not engage in business to uplift the lives of her children is depriving herself of goodness. Lami, who sells assorted locally cooked vegetables such as moriga leaves (zogale), lettuce, among others, said the business was very rewarding adding,  “I will sell assorted cooked leaves even in my next life.” She said:  “For over 30 years I have been in this business and through this business,  I have been able to raise my children well, married them off,  provided for my grandchildren and even bought a piece of land. “I started selling at the premises of NITEL office when the company was active before I moved to the Kaduna State Secretariat. I can tell you that, I have never lacked or gone to beg for help since I have been engaged in this business. “There are challenges, like in every other business, but all I can say is `Alhamdulillah.’ Some of the challenges are sometimes I experience low patronage and non-availability of some of the vegetables at certain times. You know they are seasonal, so at times, they are not available and when your goods are not available the market drops.” Hajiya Lami, who said she makes an average of N7, 000 dail, said:  “Sometimes I make more than that and sometimes, I make less depending on the season.” Asked if she ever regretted going into the business, she said:  “There was time I wanted to change my line of business, but I realised that there was a lot of potential in the business,  so I stayed and I do not regret my decision. “ Narrating on how she prepares for a typical day she said “As early as 6 a.m., I go to the market to buy my stock and by the time I am back from the market, the women who cut the vegetables, prepare the condiments, cut the fresh pepper and onions and other things have arrived.  I have about seven women working for me and I pay them after I finish selling the goods. “I then cook the vegetables and take them to the Secretariat for sale.’’ Hajiya Lami, who said she was brought to Kaduna by her mother, advised women to engage a so that they can complement what their husband is able to bring home. She also urged Nigerians to eat more vegetables for a healthy and more fulfilling life instead of consuming things that will become a problem for them when they grow old. Zogale’s enduring appeal in Kaduna Zogale’s enduring appeal in Kaduna A customer buys the delicacy ‘I hawk cooked rice because I don’t want to be a fulltime housewife’