The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project has blamed successive governments in Nigeria since 1999 for the unlawful postponement of the 2019 general elections. In a statement yesterday by its deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, SERAP, said given the increasing tendency to postpone elections and the cumulative failures and corruption over the years, it would sue the Federal Government and the National Assembly leadership for the catalogue of breaches of constitutional and international obligations. Oluwadare said SERAP would seek effective remedies for the citizens. He said  said the current electoral process “is vulnerable to corruption, but politicians would seem to have little incentive to comprehensively reform, upgrade and modernise it. “It is unlikely that either the federal government or the National Assembly would take the steps necessary to sort out our electoral system, and improve transparency, accountability and integrity of the electoral process. “We urge Nigerians to take more active role in the fight against corruption, including by putting pressure on the authorities at the federal and state levels and the National Assembly to comprehensively reform, upgrade and modernize our electoral system and processes. Otherwise, citizens’ right to participate in the governance system will remain a ‘hollow right. “Given that the right to vote is considered a part of an individual’s fundamental right to political participation, persistent postponement of elections in the country raises serious questions about the legitimacy and integrity of Nigeria’s fledgling democracy. “Persistent failure to upgrade and modernize the electoral system has effectively relegated the right of participation to paper tiger status, undermining the ability of citizens to genuinely participate in the fight against corruption and to hold their leaders to account. Yet, a transparent, accountable and modernized electoral process is a prerequisite to the effective exercise of citizenship in a democratic society.” SERAP meets Saraki over lawmakers’ ‘N3bn yearly pay’ SERAP sues Saraki for ‘paying Dariye N14.2m monthly allowances in prison’ Budget Padding: Court Orders President Buhari To Prosecute Senators