The Social Democratic Party (SDP) governorship candidate in Ogun state, Rotimi Paseda has called on the National Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to order the release his Permanent Voter Card ( PVC) without further delay. Paseda, who spoke with newsmen in Abeokuta on Wednesday expressed frustration over non-issuance of his Permanent Voter Card by INEC. He explained that he had applied for replacement of his PVC since August last year but the electoral body has failed to re-produce the card. The governorship candidate pointed out that the INEC might end up disenfranchising him barely three days to the 2019 general elections. Paseda explained that he had requested for a replacement of his PVC when he discovered that it was pealing, saying that he approached the INEC office in Odogbolu local government area and was attended to by an electoral officer. He said “The PVC with Area code number: 27-17-14-003 and VIN: 90F5-B159- 6641- 6087-233 Paseda, Olatunde Rotimi was used to vote during the year 2015 general elections without any complaints. “An Electoral Officer in the local government area attended to my complaint, collected the original PVC after making a photocopy of the same card and advised that I should be checking for a re-print of the card. “To my surprise, I have been visiting the Odogbolu area office of INEC to see how to pick my PVC since then till today. “Surprisingly, I was told by an official in the Electoral Officer’s (E. O) office that my data does not exist on the commission’s database. “For goodness sake, how could a PVC used by myself, a governorship candidate of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) during 2015 general elections and now a governorship candidate of SDP in 2019 general elections suddenly disappear from the database of INEC? “How on earth does the commission intend to wash itself clean of the allegations that it is involved in selling people’s PVCs.” 8 parties submit presidential, N/Assembly candidates - INEC 2019 : INEC insists Zamfara APC has no candidate 86,563 uncollected PVCs in Enugu, says REC