The Development Professionals Collective (DPC) has affirmed it unalloyed support for President Muhammadu Buhari and endorsed his re-election bid in Saturday’s presidential poll. In a statement signed yesterday by the Convener of the group, Gambo Hamzat Garba and its Director, Babayola M Toungo, it said the DPC, being a Non-Governmental, Non-partisan group of various professionals across Northern Nigeria, is supporting President Buhari for the following reasons: Fight Against Corruption: The fight against corruption has never gotten this deep or recorded this kind of successes, and anti-graft agencies have never been this busy since their creations, with significant amounts of looted funds recovered. Diversification of the Economy: Key sectors like Manufacturing, Agriculture, Quarrying, other minerals and Services are witnessing steady growth. The Economic Growth and Recovery Plan manifesting in the GDP growth recorded in 2018. Massive Infrastructural Development: The massive infrastructural development programme in the country ranging from roads, bridges, rail, and power is highly commendable. Every state in the country has at least a major federal road under construction; the second Niger Bridge that seems impossible is recording steady progress. Social investment Programme:  The introduction of Social Investment Programme to take care of the poor and venerable, build skills and support small business enterprises with N500 Billion allocation in annual budgets every year is a major success. Loans have been successfully disbursed under the following: Improving Domestic Revenue Mobilization: The performance of the Federal Inland Revenue Service and other Agencies culminated in the collection of over =N=6 trillion Naira revenues. Initiating Enhanced Public Efficiency: The establishment of an Efficiency Unit within the Ministry of Finance to cut costs and block leakages, the implementation of the Treasury Single Account, Whistle Blowing Policy, Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit and the implementation of Integrated Payroll Personnel System (IPPIS) across MDAs to enhance efficiency and eliminate unjustified payroll entries are the right steps in the right directions. The group added that “it is no doubt that the PMB-led administration is already making Nigeria work for Nigerians. “We are not unmindful of some of challenges facing the country especially in the area of security which if still evaluated properly or compared to previous administrations, PMB has performed above average and we are sure with his right policies if re-elected will do even better.” The group, therefore, urged all Nigerians to re-elect President Buhari on February 16, 2019.  Buhari, Osinbajo group plans door-to-door campaign Ganduje welcomes Buhari’s second term bid 2019:  Nigerians in Diaspora affirm support for Buhari’s re-election.