President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday said that all recovered loot will be reinvested into infrastructure development for the country. He said this in Ilorin, Kwara state during his campaign rally, adding that his administration will continue to bring those who abuse trust before the law. According to him, “We are going to continue to take those who abuse trust before the law; collect what they have stolen and reinvest them in infrastructure. “I assure you that the undertaking we made in 2015 in the three major issues All Progressives Congress (APC) believe in i.e. security, economy and fight against corruption, we have not failed. “Wherever I go, I repeat myself on these issues so as to remind you where this country was before we came in, where we are in now and what we are able to do with the resources that are at our disposal. “The people of the Northeast as far as security is concerned, are our major witnesses of our performance. “On the economy, we thank God the three previous rainy seasons were good. We made fertilizers available and reduce the prices it used to be. People are now back to the farms and nobody regretted it. We are able to ensure food security and people are living respectable lives.” In a remark, the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu said Kwarans have over the years, been held captive by Bukola Saraki. He said: “This is celebration of Kwara state’s freedom. It’s being long they have been swindling your collective patrimony. And Bukola Saraki is doing that. We are not here for conspiracy. We are not here to quarrel with the Saraki dynasty as Gbemisola Saraki is with us. “She is a scion of the Sarakis. We are here to reject over-lordship. We are here to say no to Bukola’s enslavement. He is a betrayal. We are chastising Bukola Saraki. This is the celebration of the fall of Berlin Wall. This is the celebration of the end to oligarchy; the emperor that has been existing for years.” Also speaking, the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole told the crowd of supporters that the end of Saraki dynasty has come. “For Bukola, it is finished. I cannot wait till Saturday for Kwara people to celebrate their new found freedom. Also, it will be a day for Kwara people and for Nigerian politicians that the evil that their political son has done to their political father has befallen him. “Suffice to say that for 16 years Bukola has underdeveloped Kwara and has controlled governor more than the master controls his cook. He has reduced Kwarans to mere beggars in their own political and economic life. “The confession of Bukola Saraki after his defection from APC exposes him as a selfish politician. To him, politics is about juicy jobs. That is why I am happy to be here to see the actual translation of enough is enough. “Everything that has a beginning must have an end. It is the day the people that have been at the receiving make up their mind to confront the oppressors that the oppression is over. That is the case of Kwara and the case of Bukola. I join you the people of Kwara to celebrate your new found freedom,” he added. Similarly, the minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed said “on November 17th bye-election, I said our party has broken the Berlin Wall of Kwara politics. I said then that we will repeat the same thing during the 2019 elections. “The elections are now here. It is time to retire those who have held the state down and make our people and our state very poor. They have been deceiving the people. They have been blaming the Federal Government for their failure. “When they can’t pay workers salaries they blame the Federal Government; when they cannot provide road they blame the Federal Government. Voting them is giving them license to continue to loot. They say the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has not done anything in Kwara state. Tell them it is a big lie.” He reeled out the major infrastructural achievements of the government in the state. In his remarks, the state chairman of APC, Bashir Bolarinwa, said the state under the Saraki oligarchy had been underdeveloped, saying “as a first generation state, our infrastructure and institutions do not depict our status. “We, unfortunately too, are behind other states created much later. It is a pity. We prayed, we hoped and made a decision that we are indeed tired of this group of reincarnate of the biblical Pharaoh. But Kwarans have decided that our own Pharaoh must let Kwara go. “Today’s rally is a culmination of our collective resolve of people to declare and let it resonate clearly that ‘enough is enough’ indeed. “After all, the tenet of democracy is that the people decide who should govern them. Since the people have said “otoge,” let enough be enough. They should pack and go. I appeal to you all to add your votes to our clarion call of “otoge.” President Buhari’s remarks at inauguration of APC Presidential Campaign Council Obasanjo warns against handover to military Because the child is the father of the man