Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday said even President Muhammadu Buhari’s enemies could testify to his incorruptibility, urging Nigerians to return him at the February 16 presidential poll. Osinbajo asked Nigerians to resist temptation of returning those he called thieves into government in order not to plunder the nation’s economy again. He spoke at the Palace of Olota of Ota in Ogun state as part of the Buhari/Osinbajo Presidential ticket campaign tour to the state. Osinbajo attributed the myriads of challenges and low level of development in Nigeria to corruption. “It is not that we don’t have budgetary allocations for all projects, but the problem we have is corruption. “If you look at our budgets in the last ten years, the government had made provisions for them. For instance, Lagos/Ibadan road and Lagos/Kano railway projects were awarded ten years ago and yet, nothing were done. The contractors that handled them, collected money and did nothing. “So, let us cast our votes for Buhari for re-election. Even the enemies of President Muhammadu Buhari know that he is not corrupt. So, don’t elect thieves to come and plunder the economy of the country again. Because their electoral promises are lies and all they intend to do again is to come back and ruin the economy.” The Vice President expressed concern over underdevelopment in Aworiland despite possessing crop of educated elites and location as an industrial hub of the country. The Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi Obalanlege inundated the Vice President and his entourage with numerous problems facing Aworiland. “Aworiland is accommodating. And we are in both Lagos and Ogun states. I want to seize this occasion to tell you that we have been relegated and which should not be. “We have massive votes in Aworiland and which ought to translate to political power but rather, we have been marginalised”, the monarch lamented. How Osinbajo, Obi will affect 2019 calculations Osinbajo, APC state chairmen discuss Buhari''s health 2019 polls: Why governors support Buhari’s re-election bid – Gov Yari