The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa state has dismissed as groundless and misguided, a statement credited to Governor Seriake Dickson, in which he urged Nigerians to discountenance votes gotten by President Muhammadu Buhari in the state during last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. APC publicity secretary in the state, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo, in a statement on Thursday in Yenagoa, said that the party also rejected a statement by Governor Dickson condemning votes polled by APC candidates in the state. Buokoribo advised the governor to explore the democratic option of seeking redress in the courts if he had any grievances about the poll results, instead of plunging into the realm of reckless and inflaming statements. He said: “Governor Dickson urging Nigerians to discountenance concocted votes allotted to Buhari and other APC candidates in Bayelsa state is rather laughable, when he supposed to respect the sanctity of ballots in the state and congratulations the winner. “APC in Bayelsa State considers the governor’s statement as baseless, ill-advised, as a narrow-minded and petty politician, Dickson seems not to realise that he is governor of all, not just PDP alone. “The February 23, 2019 elections have taken place, the results collated and winners emerged, no amount of threat, psychological warfare or fake news can change the results as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “The only option open to any aggrieved party is the court of law, as a lawyer, or even governor who has access to a myriad of lawyers, Governor Dickson should know this basic fact. “Even the amorphous Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) created by the PDP is demanding fresh elections in Southern Ijaw and Nembe Local Government Councils won by the APC instead of going to court. “The peace loving, democracy-minded people of Bayelsa state cannot be made pawns in a crude political game by rogue buccaneers seeking power at all costs,” he said. Bayelsa APC faults Dickson’s comments on Buhari’s polls result Drama, intrigues,  name-calling trail Bayelsa governorship poll Bayelsa governorship: APC, PDP in a battle of shark and ocean