The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of importing non indigenes into the state ahead of Saturday’s Presidential campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari. Daily Trust observed that all is set for the presidential rally of Buhari, with many routes expected to be closed for the movement of his motorcade. But the PDP in a statement by the Director of Media and Publicity, Taofiq Gani said in order to give a semblance of mammoth crowd to the presidential visit, the APC and its leaders have started importing people from outside the state and neighbouring countries. This is just as the PDP governorship candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje said the APC government hurriedly cleared the “legendary traffic” at Apapa because of the President’s visit. The Lagos PDP said these strange persons entered the state in trailers, buses and trains as they are now lodged in schools, NYSC camp and premises of government agencies. The PDP said the non-indigenes would be facilitated into the city from 6am tomorrow, adding that the free train rides announced by the APC is diversionary to transport the “mercenaries” into Lagos state. Daily Trust reports that the train ride was announced on Friday by the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi after the train was test-run from Iju, Lagos to Abeoku, Ogun State. The PDP alleged that many of the paid supporters from as far as neighbouring countries are going to remain in Lagos and without any means of livelihood they will eventually become criminals in the state. “We therefore call on security agencies to be on red alert just as we call on Lagosians to hold the APC responsible for the imminent rise in crime following this swell in immigration”, the statement said. But responding, the APC spokesman, Mr. Joe Igbokwe said the claim has no iota of truth, even as he challenged the PDP to do an open rally to test its popularity in the state. According to him, the PDP candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje has been holding town hall meetings since he commenced his campaign, saying the PDP had no temerity to do an open campaign, insisting Lagos is entirely an APC state. Igbokwe noted that the PDP candidate was courting the Igbo community for vote, insisting the Igbos in the state have resolved to vote APC at all levels. On the Apapa road clearing, the APC spokesman said the construction of the bridge which was reopened started a year ago and completed on Wednesday, adding that the clearing of traffic on the notorious Apapa axis has nothing to do with Buhari’s visit. Buhari campaigns for APC guber candidates Oyo: Residents alarmed over vote buying 2019: Northwest best bet to pick Presidential candidate, ex - Minister tells PDP