A non governmental organisation (NGO), Yobe Peace and Community Development Initiative (YOPCODI), in collaboration with Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has sensitized 100 women in Yobe State, on election participation. Speaking during a one day workshop organised by YOPCODI at Yobe State University Damaturu, the executive Director of the organisation, Muhammad Abdulkadir Taba, said the event was to sensitize grassroots women on voting process to ensure free, fair and peaceful elections. He said the beneficiaries of the workshop, drawn from various women-led CSOs, faith-based organizations, were expected to step down the knowledge acquired to women at grassroots through enlightenment and mobilization. “This will help women at the grassroots to exercise their civic rights through voting their preferred candidates,” she said. He said the program would also motivate women to run for political offices and participate in all electioneering process. “Women must rise to their responsibilities as mothers of the nation to serve as change agents by voting creditably in the forthcoming election”, he said. The INEC Resident National Electoral Commissioner,  in Yobe State, explained that women have important role to play in the electoral process in the forthcoming general elections. “They form a large percentage of the registered voters across the country, in addition to their role as mothers and counsellors who are expected admonish their children not to engage in electoral violence and thuggery.’’ The REC, who was represented by  Salisu W. Walama enjoined the participants to be active during the interactive sessions to exchange ideas and share experiences to enable the commission improved  its efforts in ensuring a peaceful, free, fair and credible elections. Also, the State Director, National Orientation Agency, Mallam Kaku Wakil, implored women to discourage youths from engaging in political thuggery. “As mothers, you should ensure that people under their influence did not sell their permanent voter cards (PVCs). You should equally use your numbers to derive positive development to the communities,” he added. He reiterated the significance of voting in credible leaders that can improve the living condition of people in the society, while advising the women groups to educate their peers not to exchange their votes for money. The program was attended by INEC officials, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Yobe state Ministry of Women Affairs and the National council of Women Societies (NCWS). INEC sensitizes women on card readers NOA holds North East stakeholders meeting on citizen’s participation 2015: Women journalists tasked on rural women sensitisation