The Director General of National Youth Service Corps, Major General Sule Kazaure, has urged corps members in the country to resist all forms of inducements in order not to compromise the integrity of the scheme during the general elections. Kazaure gave the advice in Benin on Wednesday during the sensitization programme for corps members on the 2019 general elections. Represented by the Assistant Director, Reforms Unit, National Directorate Headquarters, Barr. Godwin Omoti, said they should  eschew all forms of sharp practices that could mar the elections as their uniforms cannot exonerate them from prosecutions. “I want to let you know that this uniform does not exonerate you from prosecution, it can only protect you from thuggery and every other things; if you breach any electoral act, we shall watch while you go to jail,” he said. According to him, the scheme has done its best in sensitizing the corps members on the elections guidelines and that adhering to its rule and regulations will be better for them. On his part, Edo State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, he assured the corps member of adequate security before, during and after the elections in the state. Represented by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Barr. Emmanuel Aina, he advised them to play by the rules adding that they will not have any problem. “Let us all try all the time, to play the game according to the rule. Let it be known to you that if all things are equal, if you play the game according to the rule, you will not have problem, if there is no taking of gratification, if there is no dereliction of duty on your part, everything will move smoothly”, he said. Earlier, the state coordinator of the scheme, Mr. Adebayo Ojo, advised them to uphold the integrity of the scheme and their parents whose image they represent. He said the exercise is a litmus test for them to demonstrate their integrity as the future leaders of the country. 2019: NYSC says corps members will not work in volatile regions Elections: Be security conscious, NYSC DG tells corps members 2019: Don’t stop politicians from snatching materials, NYSC tells corps members