Three years after its dreadful occurrence, the resulting trauma still shakes the psyche of the surviving two members of the family. Three years ago, two female suicide bombers detonated their improvised explosive devices (IEDs) inside the house of Bulama Isa located behind Bakassi Housing Estate a suburb of Maiduguri immediately during a naming ceremony, killing 17 people comprising nine members of the family, a grandchild and seven close relations who came to celebrate with the family. The joy of having a new member in the family, the new-born child just named, turned into eternal agony, inflicting a stubborn scar on the psyche of the surviving two members to permanently remind them of the fateful day. A whole 17 bread winners of the family are gone forever. A larger chunk of the family’s succurs is gone forever. When Kanem Trust visited the family, it seemed, perhaps, it was the hardest hit by all sufferings inflicted by the10 years of insurgency in the state. The two surviving children of the family are still physically and psychologically unstable. One of the two, Gambo Lawan, lost his right hand to amputation while his left leg has survived the amputation, unfortunately it is yet to heal, and it could be damaged if serious medical attention is not paid to it. Gambo Lawan, 12, a primary six pupil of Moduganari Government School recalled that he spent about 14 months at State Special Hospital where Red Cross medics conducted several surgeries on him to enable him recuperate. He lost the right hand due to several damages inflicted by the explosion and it was amputated. “I never knew that I could survive it, because I got burnt and became black. It was really painful,” Gambo was never discouraged by his predicaments and immediately after he was discharged from hospital went back to continue his education. He said he wished to become a medical doctor so that he could save many lives. “Since he came back from hospital, there is only one thing, he noticed that just their house was not like it used to be. People don’t visit us like before. He has been recuperating but what happened to us we can’t wish our enemies,” a relation said. “He wished people could assist him because he wants to become a medical doctor. But there is no help as most of the older siblings who could have helped were killed in what he still describes as the most callous incident he has witnessed in life. “I need serious help so that my leg will not be amputated, I don’t want anything that will prevent me from going to school, with my one hand I can ride bicycle to school; although my father warned me against doing so. He believes that the condition of the hand may be worsen as a result of stress. “I just wish people will help me, so that my schooling will not stop. Although what happened has caused a setback but I am determined to face it but my fear is they said they wanted to amputate this leg again.” Al-goni Isa Bulama, the second survivor and Gambo’s elder brother said he was 18 years when the traumatising incident occurred. He narrated his ordeal, recalling that he woke up the following day at Umoru Shehu Memorial Specialist Hospital. Despite the medical treatment he received at that hospital, he laments that he still can’t see clearly or read well. He said: “I spent five months at the hospital after the blasts. Despite all the medication and treatment administered to me I still feel severe pain in my chest, abdomen and eyes.  I cannot do anything now, I do not have the strength due to several surgery operation on me. “The insurgents have destroyed our family; things are very difficult for us now; nobody cares about how we survive after losing 17 members of the family in just a day. “I can still recall that we were admitted to various hospitals. Boko Haram: Gory tales of Northern Borno fleers Fire razes building, kills couple, 3 children at Suleja Civilian JTF: Fighting Boko Haram, dying over the years