Kwara state police command on Friday announced that the Nigerian Air Force had deployed a helicopter to Kwara state for surveillance during the elections. Also, the police has denied allegations that it was targeting members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in its clamp down on suspected criminals ahead of Saturday’s polls. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Kayode Egbetokun made the clarification while briefing journalists on the preparedness of security agencies in the state for the elections. Egbetokun who was flanked by heads of other security agencies in the state, pledged the neutrality of the security forces in the efforts to ensure a free, fair and peaceful polls in the state. The CP while confirming the arrest  of Senator Rafiu Ibrahim, PDP senatorial candidate  for Kwara South and seven other suspects, warned that more suspects would still be arrested in connection with the two incidences of violence that occurred in Ojoku, Oyun local government area and Isale Aluko, in Ilorin metropolis during the week. While pledging to give all participants in the election a fair-playing ground, the police boss however warned that the security agencies were fully ready for anyone who plans violence around polls. He said “Air Force helicopter has been deployed to the state for reconnaissance activities  as part of measures to check outbreak of violence. “Law abiding citizens  and eligible voters should come out and exercise their rights. I can assure you that everyone will be protected.  Anybody seen with arms on Election Day is a hoodlum and will be treated as hoodlum. “Those preparing to cause violence should be ready to contend with us.  We have made adequate preparation for them.” Egbetokun faulted claims by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state that the command has arrested 20 of its members, saying so far the police had nabbed only eight people but that their political affiliation was not of concern when they were being arrested. Kwara youths protest, reject appointment of Egbedokun as new CP 2019 Elections: Kwara police begins 24hours surveillance Ekiti guber poll: IGP deploy massive security equipment, warns troops against misconduct