The Executive Director of Business Development and Compliance of Unity Bank, Usman Abdulqadir, in this interview, dissects the issues on how to unlock funds for the agricultural sector. What exactly is “Agric is the way to go” and how do you get relevant financing in that direction? We have always believed that Nigeria is blessed with so many policies given that we have so many policy makers at all levels. However, implementation has always been a challenge. But more importantly, basing those policies on evidence is a key problematic area for us as a country. Picking up ourselves and deciding to do what is right requires a change in orientation. Banks need to understand that you win and lose with the economy, but you can help shape it. You have to identify areas where you have competitive advantage. In Unity Bank, we believe that the agric sector represents the most value-adding sector to the economy. It contributes the largest component of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It certainly accounts for the largest distribution of employment within the economy. Sadly, it represents the sector that has the least recognition, especially within the financial sector. Take the capital market; how many agric businesses are listed on our stock exchange? How many of them embark on private placement to source income from the capital market? Very few. Come to the banking sector, how many businesses are sourcing their funding from the banks? Banks don’t lend to them; or they are reluctant to do that. No wonder we see the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) deciding to take the bull by the horn and do the lending itself. Only recently, at the bankers committee, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, lamented the lack of incentives by banks to disburse even money allocated to them by the CBN for a purpose. A reason that so annoyed the CBN that it decided to set up its own Micro Finance Bank (MFB). This is a great disservice to the economy. We at Unity Bank, for a long time, identified that sector as germane to our future aspirations. Unity Bank was founded with agriculture in mind. Today, it is a bank that has the largest concentration of rural branches, especially located in the agricultural belt. And I would say without any fear of contradiction, it represents virtually all the states of the federation. Agriculture is an engine of growth. Within it, a bank can diversify. Therefore, you can, as a bank, manage your risk by lending to various types of agricultural activities. Secondly, banks can also diversify by lending to the different segments of the value chain. The value chain in Agriculture is quite extensive, from growing to processing, marketing, branding, packaging and all manner of things. So it integrates virtually all the sectors you can think of; the financial and logistics put together. When you look at the different components; from the inputs suppliers to the service providers, like storage providers, it is so extensive. In terms of professionals, you have Agricultural Economists, Extension Service Providers, Animal Protection, Crop Production and all that. So it is really a mini economy in itself. It is enough to attract everybody, but then, not every bank understands the risk dimensions. So where does the gap exist, is it in an outright unwillingness to support the sector or a complete ignorance around the transaction dynamics? Firstly, the short answer is, banks simply do not understand the risk dynamics in the agricultural sector. And because banks have generally short term funds, incidentally, banks in Nigeria have funds that are repayable on demand. So they don’t have the flexibility of going into a lending activity for the long run. Is it sufficient, therefore, to say that banks do not understand the risk dynamics, and if so, why do they not make effort to understand? This is a composite of so many factors. One of them is that, isn’t it easier to lend to the oil and gas business or lend to a retailer and just take your daily cash flows. Or open your bank, mobilise all the funds you can get, buy government securities and wait. Yield on government securities are high. If you are a very efficient bank, you don’t need to do any lending. We have seen banks that have liquidity ratio in the excess of a 100 per cent. But these activities do not support the economy, and in the end, everybody loses. So someone has to do the dirty job. For us, we don’t even consider it a dirty job; we consider it raising our data. If you look at how we were established, we were established as a rural bank to support outgrower farmers. Today, it has largely remained the same. Over the last few years, we have gone back to our very foundation and our loan portfolio is hugely agricultural as we speak today. I think, the recognition by the bankers committee is a testimony to what we have done and we think that is a model that can rake the bank to the future. A lot has been said about the success of rice farming in Kebbi, what role did Unity Bank place in it? Kebbi is one of the first states on a large scale that adopted the Anchor Borrower Programme (ABP). The ABP brings together the outgrower farmer and the off-taker. The bank played the role of the intermediator. We provide information to the off-taker and also reverse information to the outgrower farmer. It puts at the complete disposal of the parties, it branches, understanding and knowledge on agricultural business. The bank played a critical role. The CBN does not have to do what it did. It does not have to provide funding. Across the world, not every central bank does that. In the act establishing the CBN, one of its function is development in nature, as such, it provided funding for the key critical sectors of the economy, especially agriculture, and as such, credit should go to them. So Unity Bank trained the farmers, monitored the entire process and thirdly, disbursed those loans. Remember, the loan granted by the CBN is the credit risk of Unity Bank. So essentially, the money was given to Unity Bank, so if it goes bad, it is the bank that would repay. If it succeeds, the money goes back to the CBN. I would say, the bank also benefited. If you look at the fact that the outgrower farmers are our customers, and also the small spread that we have to make as well. If you consider what other banks have to do, the profit in it is not very attractive. You have to have a responsibility other than profit, and we also believe that even the poorest of the poor are deserving of banking services. We believe it should in fact be made a part of human rights. We have brought so many people out of poverty and we have shown them how things should be done. Off course, we also learnt vital lessons which we are putting back in our second ABP. Today, the latest model is being replicated in wheat, cotton and sesame seeds. Not so much understanding exists around the role of the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) in de-risking agriculture, why is that? This is a very important question. NIRSAL was set up by the CBN to provide a risk management tool for those involved with agriculture. The CBN understands that lenders do fully understand the risk dynamics, and left to them, would not put money in agriculture. Let me essentialise it before I continue. One, agriculture accounts for not less than one-third, some say as much as 40 per cent, of the GDP. In terms of employment, it accounts for nearly 60 per cent of the country’s working population. Exposure or lending by banks as a percentage of total credit they have granted is less than three per cent. So, there is a disproportionate distribution of credit to the disadvantage of agriculture. Government has been embarking on effort to reduce the over dependence on oil. A large part of our foreign exchange goes into importation of food. Food security is a component of national security, and when people are hungry, you know what they can do. Putting all these considerations into account, the CBN decided to create this risk management company that provides a guarantee that is as high as 50 per cent on all loans granted by a bank to the agricultural sector, but in selected crops, not in every product. That is one of the limitations, it doesn’t cover everything. But they cover the ones that are very critical for our self-sufficiency or even export. NIRSAL, in addition to that guarantee, is expected to provide services like geophysical mapping of farms. Using some regression models, they can estimate and generate data on what the output will be per hectare in any part of the country. So that, as a lender, you can analyse the data made available to you and you can reasonably estimate output before committing funds. We saw the CBN adding fertiliser to the 41 items, how critical is that? It is a welcome development because we need to encourage our local producers to perform. Let us give kudos to the Federal Government of Nigeria. The presidential fertiliser initiative has created a revolution in the fertiliser sector. If you look at what we grow, the popular stable is rice and the fertiliser used is NPK, a high nutrient fertiliser, and we don’t produce it in the country. There are mainly four components to produce NPK, two of the components we can produce locally, the other two, we have to import. So rather than import NPK, which has been pre-mixed, our soil requires the mix to be in slightly different ratios even within the country. You cannot approximate. If you are in the far North, the ratio is different from the Middle Belt and the South, So why don’t we blend ourselves. Bring on those two competents. Bringing them is difficult because they are used for explosives; so the marketing is controlled. But thanks to the president, in his economic diplomacy, he brought the Moroccans who produce one of the components. So we are left to bring in potash from Europe. Our local plants are doing well. Why then do we have to import fertiliser? Look at the employment opportunities these plants will generate and the conservation of foreign exchange we would dissipate in the importation of fertiliser. Prior to the presidential initiative, a farmer had access to eight kilogrammes of fertiliser for a hectare of rice. Today, per hectare, a farmer has as much as 200kg. You have two ways of addressing an abnormal situation. You either use administrative tool to encourage or discourage. So rather than outright ban, some impose heavy duty to discourage importation. So a country chooses what works for it. In this regards, the 41 items have worked and I agree with the inclusion of fertiliser. What should be done to make youths see agriculture as a business? In agriculture, traditionally, a farmer does everything. You clear the land, plant, weed, harvest and even transport the produce yourself. This may work for subsistence farmers. In the modern sense, you cannot do this. Our model has shown that there are different segments in the value chain. Decide where you want and concentrate on it. The whole idea is to integrate the value chain and avoid a breakage. Once they are seamlessly integrated, people can do agricultural research and sell my finding to implementer’s. Some will be outgrowers. Others will take marketing. Some will design machines or use them. Young people need to know that agriculture pays; perhaps more than white collar jobs. We are partnering with a couple of foreign-based organisations to employ mechanisation as an additional effort to boost output further. Research has shown that if we mechanise, we can grow output by at least 30 per cent yearly. How is the market organised, and can we disrupt the market and have more commodity exchanges? Now technology is cheap. Data can be stored, no longer on physical servers, but in the cloud (internet), and computing power has reduced drastically. So with a small investment, you can actually provide service to millions of farmers across the world. Nigeria not doing enough to grow agric insurance –Royal Exchange director 45% of our transactions are on e-channels - First Bank MD ‘Why govt needs to review tax incentive to farmers’