Opposition political parties in Kwara state on Wednesday rose against an alleged plan by the police hierarchy to foist a new police commissioner on the state. The coalition of opposition parties said the proposed new police commissioner, Kayode Egbetokun, is linked with a national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Addressing newsmen today in Ilorin, state chairman of the Conference of National Political Parties (CNPP), Alh Adebayo Lawal, said it would be odd to post Egbetokun to a state where Tinubu is known to have strong interest in securing political dominance. The CNPP also argued that the proposed change is suspicious and indicate a desperation on the part of the APC, more so as the incumbent police commissioner in the state was only recently posted to duty there. He added: “Late yesterday, we received credible intelligence that the Federal Government had concluded plans with the police hierarchy to deploy Egbetokun to Kwara, which is in furtherance of their plot to manipulate the forthcoming elections in the state. “While we do not hold any grudges against the police officer, we reject his planned posting to Kwara based on his loyalty and affiliation to the APC leader, Bola Tinubu, whose interest and intentions in Kwara elections is well known. “For those who do not know, Egbetokun served as the Chief Security Officer to Tinubu for years. Recently, he was appointed as Lagos state Commissioner of Police but his appointment was rejected by the people and government of Lagos. “The planned change in the leadership of the Police Command in Kwara few days to the general elections is not only insensitive but also reeks of suspicion and downright desperation on the part of the APC-led federal government that is ready to deploy any means to take over power in the state. “Although, we acknowledge the fact that the police hierarchy has the powers to deploy or redeploy its officers as it deems fit, we, however, believe that the police must take into cognizance certain factors in exercising such powers, especially at this electioneering period in order not to raise doubts in the minds of the public particularly the opposition. “Moves such as this cannot guarantee confidence in the police to do an impartial job during the elections. “We, therefore, condemn and reject in totality the intended posting of Egbetokun, an ally of Tinubu to Kwara state. “We strongly hold that his posting to Kwara and subsequent involvement in the electoral process portends serious danger to the success of the exercise. “We hereby appeal to the APC/FG to halt the planned deployment of Egbetokun to Kwara to avoid heating up the polity and heightening the current political tension in the state. We must separate governance from politics. “We appeal to international agencies, civil societies, leaders of thought, well-meaning Nigerians and the general public to join in condemning the plot by the APC to manipulate electoral process in Kwara. “The Federal Government and the APC should allow Kwarans exercise their constitutional right by voting the candidates of their choice in a violent-free environment. “All political parties participating in the forthcoming elections are stakeholders and our concerns must be well addressed to ensure the success of the exercise. “We also call on INEC and security agencies to insulate themselves from partisan politics and not to allow themselves be used by the APC-led Federal Government to scuttle the electoral process.” PDP threatens to pull out of presidential peace pact Kwara: CNPP raises alarm over planned clampdown on oppositions Plot to impeach Ambode thickens