The Wife of the President, Hajia Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has  donated relief materials worth millions of Naira to survivors of the recent crisis in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna state. The wife of the president who was represented by one of her close associates, Hajia Binta Muazu, presented the relief materials to the survivors at Maraban Kajuru and Katul Crossing, in Kajuru local government area yesterday. Items donated included trucks load of 25 kilograms bags of rice and other food items, as well as clothing materials. She told both the Fulani and Adara communities affected in the crisis that, God in His wisdom has reasons for bringing them together; therefore, they must live together in peace and harmony. She said, “Her Excellency, wife of the President, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari feels your pain. She is touched by the unfortunate incident that happened here in Kajuru. She has asked me to express her condolence to you and bring to you some relief materials, which include food items and clothing materials. “She also asked me to assure you that, the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be fished out by the authorities and will be made to face the most severe punishment according to the law of the land.” Speaking at the event, wife of the  Kaduna State Governor, Hajia Aisha (Ummi) Garba El-Rufai expressed appreciation to the President’s wife, and admonished the people of Kajuru local government to live in peace. Receiving the items on behalf of the people of Kajuru, Chairman of Kajuru local government council, Hon. Kafra Caino Boaz expressed dismay that, the image of Kajuru was being soiled by incessant crises. He however told the people of the area that, the crises have denied the local government area meaningful developments and progress. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Halima Augustine, thanked the President’s wife for the gesture and appealed to the government to help them apprehend killers of their kinsmen. Aisha Buhari donates relief materials to flood victims in Benue Aisha Buhari empowers 300 Borno women Numan attack: Aisha Buhari donates relief items to victims, calls for reconciliation