The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has urged telecom operators to remit their outstanding payments to the agency without further delay. The Director General of the agency, retired Capt. Muhtar Usman, stated this during a meeting with the Association of Licensed Telecommunications operators of Nigeria (ALTON), a statement by the General Manager, Public Relations, Sam Adurogboye, said yesterday. It was learnt that the delay in the payment of outstanding charges amounting to about N1bn stemmed from the disagreement over whether or not the telecom operators are expected to renew the Aviation Height Clearance (AHC) approval. Under the NCAA (Establishment) Act, Section 7(1) (n), the NCAA is empowered to prohibit and regulate the installation of any structure which by virtue of its height or position is considered to endanger the safety of air navigation. Therefore, pursuant to the provision, the regulatory authority requires an Aviation Height Clearance (AHC) approval for every high-rise structure, mast, tower installation, irrespective of the height and location. According to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs) Part 12.1.7.1.11, the AHC shall remain in force for a period of one year when it shall be due for renewal unless suspended or cancelled by the authority. Similarly, the holder of an AHC certificate shall ensure proper records of AHC granted to it and the renewal of the AHC at least 30 days to the expiry date. It was learnt that ALTON requested for a meeting with the director general to resolve some perceived grey areas, especially whether AHC should be a one-off exercise or should the structures be selected, particularly if they are not deemed to endanger air navigation. Following the grey areas, ALTON was said to have directed members to cease payments until the issues are resolved. The NCAA DG is, however, unhappy with the directive, insisting the agency was bequeathed with the power to render such services, and recover costs associated with it. According to him, NCAA has been reluctant to review the fees for many years even when the reality at inception of the charges has considerably changed. He said the authority shall use all legal means of ensuring the removal of any structure(s) which are erected or constructed without compliance with the provision of these regulations. The president of ALTON, Mr Gbenga Adebayo, however demanded for a bilateral committee comprising officials of both NCAA and ALTON to be established to hold periodic meetings for a smooth working relationship. Flight operations: NCAA, Lagos partner over high-rise structures Flight operations: NCAA, Lagos move to stop high rise structures NCAA grounds 2 aircraft over falsified clearance