The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has said it observed widespread logistics challenge, vote buying and violence in Saturday’s general elections. A member of the CDD’s Election Analysis Centre (EAC), Dr. Plangsat Dayit, disclosed this in Abuja while presenting a preliminary report of the Presidential and National Assembly elections conducted by the centre. According to her, as was expected, there remain questions about INEC’s preparedness for the elections despite additional week they took to tie up loose ends logistically and operationally. “Reports reaching us are that logistical issues are still widespread. Ballot papers are not sufficient in some polling units, while in others, there is lack of other materials such as the indelible ink, ballots or result sheets,” Dayit said. While noting that though the Smart Card Readers (SCRs) remained one of the most vital aspects of the elections in Nigeria, their observers report that many of the issues bedevilling the SCRs from previous elections have persisted in some of the locations visited by our observers. She said, “There are quite a lot of reports that the SCRs are failing to authenticate a significant number of voters who have presented themselves for voting. “It is yet unclear whether their PVCs were authenticated first before their biometrics failed to be recognised. What is certain as at this moment is that in a few places, Supervising Officers have directed that manual voting should be allowed. She said that in Birnin Kudu Local Government Area (LGA), Bamaina Ward, Voting Point 009, the card reader did not function until midday, apart from PU 014 of Dakata Ward in Nassarawa LGA of Kano Central, where voting did not commence as at noon because the card reader did not work at all. Dayit, who noted that the poll also recorded pockets of violence, said there were many areas where vote buying was observed. She said, “Two persons were killed with three others injured in Amagu Ward one in Ikwo Local Government Area of the Ebonyi. The death occurred following a clash between supporters of two political parties in the state. “In Rivers State, five people have so far been killed, with four killed in Andoni Local Government Area and another one in Akuku Toru local government area of Rivers state. “Our observers reported killings also in Dekina, Kogi, Sapele Oba. Two people were allegedly killed. As we are filing this report, our observers are reporting ongoing thug invasion in Oru West LGA in Imo state.” APC,  PDP, SDP, ADC, others all found new ways to buy vote, say monitors CDD to prioritise countering fake news for polls Fayemi, Olusola claim victory