Thugs have attacked the residential home of a former commissioner for Education to Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, Professor Adeniyi Olowofela and killed one of his supporters. Olowofela, who is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency in the forthcoming elections, narrowly escaped the attack. The attack claimed the life of one of the strong members of his campaign team, Alhaji Salau Salimon Alade. According to a witness, the incident occurred shortly after the state governor,  Abiola Ajimobi and the APC gubernatorial candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu left the Omi-Adio resident of the former commissioner after a campaign tour. Among the properties attacked by the thugs were his Omi-Adio house located in Ido Local Government Area of Oyo state where no fewer than six vehicles and campaign office were vandalized. Meanwhile, Olowofela in a statement issued by his media aide, Comrade Idowu Ayodele, yesterday said the opposition cannot change the resolve by Ibarapa East /Ido  constituents to vote for Olowofela and all the APC candidates in the forthcoming polls billed for February 16. According to the statement, the ex -Commissioner for Education said, “though, I was surprised with the degree of damages done by these criminals, but it has also confirmed our resounding victories as a party and further proven  that I remain the people’s choice. “The oppositions should endeavour to endear themselves to the good people of Ibarapa East/Ido Federal constituency, through humane and civilized manner, rather than resort to desperate tactics that threaten the lives and property of the citizens,” the statement added. While commending the Omi-Adio Divisional Police Headquarters for its quick response, Olowofela, however, demanded that the perpetrators of this heinous crime and their sponsors be brought to book. He, however called on party faithful, supporters as well as good and peace-loving people of Ibarapa East/Ido federal constituency to remain calm and maintain order. One killed, scores injured as APC, PDP supporters clash in Oyo Political violence rocks  Kogi, Oyo, Delta states Ekiti: How violence may threaten June 21 poll