A total of 71 retired Generals of the Armed Forces including Army, Navy and Air Force have endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid. The retired military officers, led by former military administrator of Lagos State, retired Brigadier General Buba Marwa, threw their weight behind the president’s re-election bid at the council chamber of the State House, Villa, Abuja. The Generals included one Vice Admiral, two Lt-Generals, 15 Major Generals, two Rear Admirals, eight Air Vice-Marshals, 12 Brigadier-Generals, three Commodores, nine Air Commodores, and 17 former military governors/administrators, among others. Receiving the retired military officers, Buhari recalling what he said in his days as military head of state that “We have no other country but Nigeria. We will stay here and salvage it together.” He said even if one was blessed enough to send children for training abroad, “after such training, they will still have to come back here. We must, therefore, give our best for our country. The patriotism imbued in us by the military will ever remain relevant. Let’s do our best for this country.” Describing Nigeria as “a fabulous country,” the President said if it were not so, “the country could not have survived the damage done to it materially and morally in the past,” glorifying God that after 30 months civil war, with over two million lives lost, “we are still one country.” President Buhari prayed that Nigeria would not lack people who can exploit its human and material resources. Earlier, Marwa, who was military governor in Borno, and later military administrator of Lagos State, said the retired top officers thought it right to visit the president, “to say that you have represented your constituency very well.” He added: “We support you fully and totally in the presidential elections next week and will do whatever we can within the law to contribute to your emergence as the victor in the election in order to take Nigeria to the next level.” The most senior of the retired officers, Vice Admiral Jubrila Ayinla, a former Chief of Naval Staff, said future generations would acquit President Buhari “most creditably.” 52 retired Generals endorse Buhari’s second term bid Armed Forces Remembrance Day: VP, WWII veteran, lay wreaths at Abuja cenotaph AVM Hamza Abdullahi [1945-2019]