The Inter-Faith Mediation Centre, Kaduna has commenced the training of 120 youths from 52 communities across four local government areas of Kaduna State as peace ambassadors ahead of the 2019 general elections. Speaking at a one-day seminar to sensitise the youth on tolerance and peaceful coexistence in the state, the co-Executive Director of the centre, Imam Nurai Ashafa, said the aim of the seminar was to sensitize youths against electoral violence. He said the centre brought in youths who have not engaged in violence and those who have at one time engaged in violence to rub minds and find a common ground that would bring peace and unity in the county. “The next level is where they realise that they succeeded after cutting off from being violent in their community and these are the type of people we bring together. “We create cycles for the youths where they can begin to talk together on the better future they can have and recognise that violence does not pay.” He said, the centre will engage religious leaders, professional groups and other relevant stakeholders who will empower the youths with how to be able to think of what they can do to make their lives better.” He said building a synergy among the youth would serve as a bridge builder across communities to work for violence-free and credible polls in the country . “Gonin Gora, Nasarawa, Television and Unguwa Rimi were selected from the circle because the areas have had their fair share of youth violence and it is good the circle changes the narrative, “ he said. In their goodwill messages, representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN)and Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), Haruna Micheal and Ibrahim Kufaina, respectively, urged the youths to learn the habit of forgiveness and urged them to desist from being used to propagate violence before, during and after the elections They also charge them to be agents of change not destruction and serve as peace ambassadors. They further advised the youth to abide by the teaching of the two Holy books. Kaduna’s peace narrative (II) Group engages drug users in campaign against political violence Violence at Kasuwar Magani