The Kauru and Lere communities have commended Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state for announcing the creation of Kaduna State University (KASU) campuses in their respective community. Speaking under the auspices of the Kauru-Lere Community Development Association, the people of the two communities in Kauru and Lere local government areas, respectively, promised to remain loyal and supportive to the el-Rufai administration “for its laudable projects that has direct bearing in the lives of our people”. Addressing journalists in Kaduna, President National Kauru- Lere Development Association, Prof. Yohanna Tela, said: “Education is crucial in equipping people with the right skills to find fulfilling work and become independent. It drives innovative, economic growth and competitiveness. But Education can only play its part if it delivers good results within the reach of all. “Kaduna state government has made tremendous progress in the revitalization of the state educational sector ranging from the establishment of more educational institutions, revitalization of deteriorating educational infrastructure, recruitment  and improving the quality and wellbeing of teachers and much more. Yet discrepancies still exist in the distribution of educational institutions between local government areas of the state. “These discrepancies is of no doubt the basis for a multi-campus structure of Kaduna State University recently disclosed by Governor of Kaduna state, Malam Nasir el-Rufa’i. “This courageous and encouraging decision taken by the administration of the Governor of Kaduna state on the creation of Kaduna State University campuses at Lere and Kauru did not only gladdened the minds of the people in these areas but is a welcome and timely development to the people of these two local government areas. We love and cherish the goodwill of His Excellency. “Our people have been neglected for many years and we feel there is no any better time than now for these two local government areas to be allowed to accommodate campuses of higher educational institution, particularly as we are known to be the food baskets of this state, and the country,” he said. Yohanna reaffirmed the support and commitments of the people of the two communities to the pursuit and realization of government policies, while urging the people to sustain the peaceful atmosphere prevailing in the two local government areas and across the state. He called on all residents to remain law abiding and peaceful citizens for the actualization of more of government’s developmental policies. FG disburses N210 m to 10, 490 poor people in Kaduna El-Rufa’i gives N29m to families of Zaria bomb blast victims Kaduna targets 1.5million children as measles vaccination commences