In Yobe, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is the ruling party. It’s one of the few states that had been in opposition since the return of democracy in 1999 until in 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari won the general election to form the government, hence paving the way for the North Eastern state to be in the same party with the one at the centre. Even before 2015, findings reveal that Yobe people have been continuously voting for Buhari overwhelmingly. This happened in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015.  They never shifted loyalty no matter the strength of his opponent. To take the commitment further, Governor Ibrahim Gaidam had during the recent APC presidential campaign rally at August 27 Stadium, Damaturu, recalled that Buhari in 2015 secured 98 per cent of the total presidential votes cast and assured that the remaining 2 percent would be delivered to him in the 2019 election. Daily Trust reports that in 2015, then candidate Buhari scored 446,265 votes to defeat his leading contender, President Goodluck Jonathan who scored 25,526 votes. Other parties such as UPP scored just 32 votes; UDP, 30 votes; Kowa Party, 104; AD, 213 and ADC, 112. Recently, Governor Gaidam has succeeded in bringing a former PDP chairman, gubernatorial candidate, and senatorial candidates among other strong party officials and members into the APC and all of them have promised to support Buhari’s ambition. However, where President Muhammadu Buhari or the APC will have some resistance is Yobe Zone B with headquarters in Potiskum. It has been the comfort zone of the PDP for long; even the serving senator representing the area, Mohammed Hassan, is of the PDP. However, APC stalwarts don’t seem perturbed on the grounds that not for once had the PDP won against President Buhari in the area in all the elections he contested. According to some analysts, the PDP in zone B is already in disarray and the raging conflict could cost the party not only the presidential votes but the much needed victory of the senatorial and House of Representative seats they currently occupy. One of the analysts, Malam Lawan Cheri, said the crisis between one of the founders of the party in Yobe, Adamu Maina Waziri and Senator Mohammed Hassan, could ruin the party’s chances in the 2019 general election. “Also, the defection of two former PDP state chairmen, (Hassan Kafayos and Lawan Gana karasuwa), two senatorial candidates (Dr. Yerima Ngama and Dr Mairo Amshi) and other party officials and heavy weights to APC has weakened the PDPs structure and chances this time around,” he said. “To me, Atiku must struggle hard to get the 25 per cent here in Yobe and the same is applicable in Borno,” he added. He observed that at the moment, some of the PDP candidates in the state are not campaigning for Atiku for fear of peoples’ reaction. “Buhari has his shortcomings but the masses are still his die-hard supporters due to his natural charisma. Also, we in the northeast – Yobe and Maiduguri, know what he has done on security because before he took over, those of us in Damaturu had fled our houses and rented accommodation in neighbouring states of Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe and Kano but today, almost everyone has returned,” he added. A political watcher, who prefers anonymity, said that the voting pattern could differ this time around considering that both candidates of the strong parties are Muslims from the North. “Atiku could make 25 per cent in Yobe because there are people, especially the elite and middle class, who still believe that President Buhari’s policies are faulty and they need change,” he said. “Also, some of the masses who think that the president did not deliver on his campaign promises would go for Atiku,” he added. The Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC, Alhaji Ahmad Makama, said yesterday that 69,000 Permanent Voter Cards are still uncollected in Yobe State. He said that the total number of registered voters in the state is 1.3 million and the state has a total number of 2,823 polling units. In 2015, only 491,767 voters participated in the presidential elections; meaning leaders who want massive participation this time around must improve voter education. However, the political atmosphere in Yobe is relatively conducive although the scenario that unfolded recently in zone B, where at the zonal rally in Nangere, Governor Gaidam accused the military of aiding rigging in favour of PDP in 2015; and the clash that left APC and PDP supporters’ vehicles destroyed in Potiskum last week Friday, are early warning that INEC and security operatives need to work on the signed peace accord in the state. Borno 2019: Sheriff wants to manipulate Buhari, Oshiomhole – Ex-Deputy Governor How Buhari, Atiku, others will battle for 84.2m votes in 2019 Buhari’s campaign train arrives Damaturu amidst jubilation