Twelve people on Sunday died in a fatal accident at Siun axis of Abeokuta – Sagamu road in Ogun State. The road crash which involved a Toyota Sports Space Bus marked LSR334FF and a Black Kia Cerato with registration number KJA806 BT, occurred at about 1pm on Sunday. It was gathered that the tyre of the Kia Cerato car burst, as the driver lost control of the wheels and veered off its lane. In the process, it climbed the road divider and violently raced into the opposite direction before it collided with Toyota Space Bus, killing “all occupants of the ill-fated vehicles.” The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Education Officer in the state, Florence Okpe, in statement made available to our correspondent in Abeokuta on Sunday, said all twelve passengers – five Male adult, six female adult and one child, in the two vehicles died in the crash. She blamed the crash on “tyre burst and speeding.” Okpe said the dead victims have been taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) Mortuary, Sagamu. She said “KIA Cerato Car on high speed suffered a burst tyre and the driver was suspected to have applied break suddenly, which led to him losing control of the speeding car. The car left its lane, climbing the road divider and raced to the opposite direction where the car collided with a passenger bus, a grey coloured Toyota Sports Space Bus. The bus was travelling from Abeokuta towards Sagamu. “The unfortunate crash killed all the occupants of the two ill-fated vehicles. The suspected cause of the crash is tyre burst and speeding.” Okpe added that the Sector Commander Corps Commander, Clement Oladele commiserated with the families of the dead and “informed members of the public whose family members travelled within the period to contact the FRSC Command Abeokuta or Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu for identification of the victims.” 12 die in Ogun road crash Multiple accidents kill 4, injure others in Ogun Motorcyclist, four others crushed to death  on Lagos-Ibadan expressway