The Adamawa State Governor, Muhammadu Jibrilla Bindow, has debunked reports of a rift with his deputy and running mate, Eng. Martins Babale, describing the reports as fake. In a signed statement, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ahmad Sajoh, Gov. Bindow said the absence of the deputy governor at some campaign rallies was due to a new campaign strategy adopted where the campaign team was split into teams A and B headed by the governor and his deputy respectively. “The governor is recorded to have announced publicly that he has no rift whatsoever with his deputy and had never had such at any time during their relationship,” he said. “The governor decided that his campaign proceed with Team A, headed by him, while Team B is headed by the deputy governor,” he said. Reports suggesting that Gov. Jibrilla was under pressure to drop Babale for a more popular person filtered after the later was noticed to have been absent from series of campaign tours in the last few weeks. Babale’s absence at the campaign flag off in various local government areas in his Southern Senatorial Zone constituency, as well as remarks from some major associates of the governor about his becoming a liability in his zone, gave credence to the reports that indicated a rift with his principal. Youths in his home local government area of Toungo recently protested against his alleged insensitivity to the people during the first leg of the campaign tour, preventing him from gaining access to his house, while a major APC chieftain in the area, Mansur Toungo, was reported to have publicly lamented the picking of Babale as running mate for the second term bid. Sources close to the re-election campaign revealed that some influential party chieftains initially recommended a more popular person in Chamba chiefdom, comprising Toungo, Ganye and Jada, but the governor has insisted on Babale. Also, a youth group, Chamba Youths Organisation (CYO), in a communique signed by its President, Joseph Balanso, called on Gov. Jibrilla to drop Babale who they accused of selfish representation since the time he served three terms as a Member of the House of Representatives. A source noted that the governor barred the deputy from attending rallies after he was convinced that the growing unpopularity of his deputy might further affect his chances amid current threats from the PDP and ADC candidates who are pulling crowds. Deputy Governors: Still under shadows of their bosses? Adamawa deputy gov denies resignation Police arrest seven protesters in Yola