The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Sunday declared candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winners of Lagos Island Federal Constituencies 1 and 2 in Lagos State. The results were declared at the INEC office in Lagos Island. Prof. Olaniyi Okedele of the University of Lagos, the Returning Officer for the Lagos Island Federal Constituency 1, said that a total number of 19,493 votes were cast in the election, with 603 void votes  and 18, 890 valid votes. He said that Enitan Badru of the All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 15,245 votes to beat his closest rival, Violet Williams of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 3,258 votes. Okedele declared that Mr Enitan Badru of the APC satisfied the requirements of law and scoring the highest number of votes, is declared the winner and is returned elected having polled 15,245 votes. Also, Prof Solomon Akinboye, of University of Lagos and the Returning Officer of Lagos Island Federal Constituency 2 declared Akiolu Kayode of APC the winner in the constituency’s election. Akinboye said that a total of 18,758 votes were cast with 973 votes rejected and 17,785 votes valid. He said that Akiolu Kayode polled 12,988 votes, followed by Adama Olagbenga of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 4, 345. The returning officer said ADC scored 44 votes while AD polled 50 votes. Akinboye declared Mr Akiolu Kayode of the APC  winner, having satisfied the requirements of law and having scored the highest number of votes, and returned him elected. Earlier, Mr Sodiq Abubakar, the Electorial Officer, Lagos Island commended the stakeholders who had been waiting for results since yesterday for their calm and maturity. Abubakar said that INEC conducted elections for the Presidential and National Assembly positions, while commending the security personnel for their support and conduct. 2019 Elections: INEC declares PDP candidate winner of Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency INEC declares Epe federal constituency APC Reps candidate winner APC clears two senatorial districts, 2 reps in Ekiti