The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, says the results of the presidential and National Assembly elections in Ekiti State are ready. Prof. Yakubu, who briefed stakeholders at the International Conference Centre (ICC) on Sunday, said the State Collation Officer was already on his way to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, to submit the results for presidential elections. The INEC chairman, who said the official announcement of the presidential results at National Collation Centre, would be inaugurated at 6pm, added that the results from 36 States and the FCT would begin to trickle in between this night and tomorrow morning. READ: No plan to cancel FCT polls — INEC Chair “Collation of results from Saturday’s elections continues nationwide. Almost all the States have concluded area collation and are now collating results. We expect State Collation Officers to start arriving at ICC later today and early morning tomorrow,” he said. Prof. Yakubu, who said only the commission was constitutionally empowered to announce the election results, advised journalists and social media enthusiasts to be circumspect in the way the outcome of the polls was being presented. The INEC boss, who said the technical glitches experienced in some locations were successfully rectified, regretted that the logo of African Action Congress (AAC) was inadvertently omitted from the ballot paper for Lagos East Senatorial District. He said the commission had contacted the chairman of the party to acknowledge the error. He listed States where elections were repeated today due to the failure of smart card readers and inadequate materials to include Abia, Bayelsa, Benue, Plateau, Zamfara, and one polling unit each in Sokoto and Kuje Area Council of the FCT. He said the commission had received preliminary reports and was monitoring the situation in Rivers, Lagos, Imo, Zamfara and the cases of intimidation, abduction, burning of ballot papers/boxes and violence unleashed on electoral officials in some States.  No plan to cancel FCT polls — INEC Chair INEC sets up c’ttees ahead of polls as PDP kicks INEC situation room: Collation starts with Ekiti, as four others wait