The Ogun Coordinator of President Muhammadu Buhari Youths Campaign Organisation (BYO), Olusegun Clement, on Thursday stated that the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),Atiku Abubakar“, stands no chance of winning the Feb. 16, election in the state.“ Clement said this during the inauguration of members of the state executive of the organisation in Abeokuta. He noted that the popularity and the acceptability of Buhari had shown that other presidential candidates had no chance in the state during the election. The coordinator described Atiku as no threat to Buhari’s second term bid, adding that the President had transformed the nation in his first term so he deserved to return. Clement, former Special Assistant to Gov. Ibikunle Amosun on Student Affairs, noted that with the re-election of Buhari in the coming election, the future of youths would be secured. “For us in Ogun, what we are doing is sensitisation and mild interfacing with our people because no other presidential candidate is popular here; it is President Muhammadu Buhari all the way. “So, what we are doing today, which is the inauguration of Buhari Youths Campaign Organisation in the state, is a means to further interface with our people in a more organised way. “That is because our leader and father, President Buhari holds Ogun people in high esteem. “This event marks the beginning of our activities in Ogun and we will continue until 48 hours to the presidential election. “We will visit the nooks and crannies of the state, delivering the message of Mr President to them,” he said. Speaking on the involvement of Youths in the coming elections, Clement enjoined them to shun violence and promptly report anyone trying to use them as instrument to breakdown law and order. Clement also appealed to them to vote wisely, saying Buhari remained the best alternative that would continue to deliver the dividend of democracy to Nigerians. “Buhari remains the only and best option who will deliver the dividend of democracy to us and with him, our future is secured.”(NAN) Endorsements that will shape 2019 polls Adamawa set for battle of ‘2 landlords’ Northern group withdraws support for Atiku, backs Buhari