Aggressive Information and Communications Technology technical training will stimulate self-employment, create wealth and bring about robust economy, the Administrator of Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Dr Ike Adinde, has said. Dr Adinde spoke, yesterday, shortly before a $1 million telecommunication network equipment laboratory was commissioned at the Abuja campus of the institute. “The government recognises the social and economic benefits of ICT technical training and its potential to upscale skill acquisition and reduce unemployment by stimulating self-employment, entrepreneurship and wealth creation thereby reducing inequality and driving a robust economy,’’ he said. He said for sustainable development to take place, significant investment must be made in increasing the skills of the workforce of the nation. He said the $1m telecom lab project started in July 2018 with the donation of a complement of modern telecommunications equipment by Huawei Technologies Nigeria Limited to the DBI. The lab, he said, was equipped with worldwide industry standard training systems that combine hands-on skill training with the required theory. “These learning systems integrate seamlessly into any operational and production setup  and cuts across  various technical fields. “The lab is equally effective for technicians, engineers, field workers and anyone needing further understanding and skills in wireless telecommunications,’’ he said. He thanked DBI’s parent institution – the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) –  and its Executive Vice Chairman, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, whose “leadership role has enabled the institute to forge critical strategic collaborations such as that of the Huawei Technologies that has crystallised to this achievement.’’ The Chairman of DBI governing board, Engr Titi Omo-Ettu, said a clear path to change the poor narrative of the country’s economy in terms of job creation is the recognition of the importance of skills as a means of easing the unemployment situation and creating a pool of entrepreneurs to drive growth. DBI urges African governments to invest in ICT Institute calls for intervention in ICT to stimulate economic growth DBI gets N100m IT, telecom equipment from Huawei