A stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, has criticised President Muhammadu Buhari for directing security agents to deal ruthlessly with ballot box snatchers during the general elections. Speaking at a PDP youth rally in Ilorin on Thursday, where scores of decampees were received by the leaders of the party, Saraki said that a president who loves his people would not have ordered soldiers to kill them. He expressed confidence that the PDP flagbearer, Atiku Abubakar, will emerge as Nigeria’s next president on Saturday, pointing out that Nigerians support for the PDP’s presidential candidate across the length and breadth of the country is overwhelming. The PDP leader, who said the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government has no agenda for either Nigeria or its people, enjoined Nigerians, especially the youths to vote for Atiku in this Saturday’s presidential elections “to say goodbye to hunger and poverty in Nigeria.” Saraki said the government of Atiku Abubakar had promised 40 percent appointment for youths when elected, adding that votes for PDP would ensure growth and development of Nigeria and Kwara state. He enjoined the youth to vote for PDP candidates in the coming elections, saying that their votes would ensure sustenance of integrity of Kwara state and its people. The decampees included members of the Mega Party of Nigeria, APC, ACPN, Action Alliance (AA) and Labour Party. Saraki had earlier led the campaign train of the PDP to Malete, Shao in Kwara North and Oke-Oyi in Ilorin East (Kwara Central). At Shao in Moro local government area, the Ohoro Shao, Alhaji Bamidele Alabi Adegbite, has declared his support and that of his subjects for the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, ahead of the elections. He assured the Senate President that his subjects would cast their votes for all PDP’s candidates in Saturday’s elections and the subsequent ones. While asking God to grant Saraki resounding success in the general elections, Oba Adegbite added: “You shall retain your position as Senate President. We will support all your candidates. Your enemies shall be brought to shame”. He thanked Saraki for the donation of a giant generating set to the palace and Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed for giving the community a motorized borehole. The monarch also clarified that “Shao is not enemy of Ilorin. The Emir is our paramount ruler. We hold him in high esteem.” Earlier, the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, had thanked the monarch for his support for the state government. He intimated him on the need for Nigerians, especially Kwarans to elect the PDP presidential candidate as the nation’s next president. At the home front, he said the PDP is the only party that has programmes for every part of the state, assuring that Razak Atunwa’s administration would consolidate on the gains already recorded by the administration of Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed. I will not allow cabal to run my government – Atiku I’ll not allow cabal to run my government – Atiku Saraki quits race for president, to back Buhari