University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), yesterday, awarded 50 staff members who performed excellently in the year 2018. The staff are part of about 2,000 workforce in the tertiary health facility. Presenting the awards to the staff, who were drawn from all departments of the institution, the Chief Medical Director of UATH, Prof Bissallah A. Ekele, said “the purpose of this award is to encourage and ginger other staff. It’s not that the awardees are better than the rest of the staff, but rather, it’s because of their hardwork and dedication that make them stand out among others.” He encouraged those who did not receive the award to step up their performances and put in more effort in their work so that there would  be more awardees next year. The Department of Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) was awarded the best department of the hospital in the year 2018 for its outstanding performance in services rendered to the patients. “The department is always clean and doctors and nurses are always available to attend to patients which made our ENT department among the best in Nigeria and we have received international support because of that,” Prof Ekele said. Doctors, nurses, administration staff and some NGOs that had invested in the hospital were among the awardees. The star award went to Dr Samson Elorin, who was the team leader that separated the first conjoined twins in Abuja. He  bagged the Star Staff of the Year 2018 award. “I’m overwhelmed and humbled and  on behalf of all the awardees, I thank the management of the hospital for this opportunity,” he said. He also thanked the Servicom for nominating him for the award and dedicated it to the team that separated the conjoined twins. Aisha’s Foundation, Fidelity Bank and Diamond Bank also received awards for the services they rendered to some of the helpless patients in the hospital.  Performance reward critical to good health care delivery 20 honoured in primary health quest Media Trust honours 36 staff for integrity, long service