The police command in Zamfara state has said the attacks on some communities in Mada district of Gusau local government area which claimed 15 persons might be reprisal attacks after outlawed Yan Sakai group killed 7 people of Fulani extraction. The spokesman of the command, SP Muhammad Shehu, said in a statement that, the attack were presumably reprisals to the attacks on some Fulanis onboard  a J5 vehicle last Friday where seven Fulanis  and their animals were killed and set ablaze by an outlawed group of “Yansakai”. He however said normalcy had been restored to the affected villages with improved deployment of PMF, CTU, Special Forces and Military teams to the area to forestall further attack on neighbouring villages. “The Zamfara State Police Command wishes to confirm the killing of 15 persons including a female as well as an alleged kidnap of 6 women and one Alhaji Ibrahim, after an attack on Wonaka, Ajja, Mada, Ruwan Baure, Doka, Takoka and Tudun Maijatau villages of Mada District in Gusau LGA yesterday. “Fortunately, the 6 abducted women have regained their freedom and have rejoined their families,” he said. “In another development, the District head of Gwashi in Bukkuyum LGA reported that armed bandits had stormed Batauna village and killed 11 persons and set several houses ablaze” “Details are still sketchy due to distance/terrain inaccessibility and lack of GSM coverage. Units of PMF/CTU/Special Forces and Military were mobilized to complement the effort of security personnel already on ground and also confirm the authenticity of the report. “The entire axis and environs have been subjected to coordinate bush combing for possible arrest of the perpetrators. The command calls on members of the public to “avoid taking laws into their hands, but report all complaints and grievances to a constituted authority for legal redress.” “Discreet investigation into this dastardly act has already commenced, and all perpetrators would be fished out and made to face the full wrath of the law,” the statement further read. Again, gunmen kill 25 in Zamfara villages Fresh Violence in Southern Kaduna Story behind Zamfara’s Oct. 1st massacre