The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged accredited observers for the forthcoming election in Kogi State to avoid all forms of partisanship in the discharge of their statutory duties. INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner in the state, Prof James Apam, stated this on Wednesday in Lokoja during an interactive session organized by the Commission for accredited observers and political party agents ahead of the forthcoming polls. He maintained that the primary focus of observation was to ascertain as to whether elections are carried out substantially in accordance with the set rules and regulations that are prescribed by law in the country. Apam therefore urged observers to ensure they provide an impartial and accurate assessment of the nature of the election process for purpose of constructive criticism and ensure improved performance in future elections. He advised the observers to ensure they are fully kitted with their accreditation tags, face cap and jackets for easy identification by security operatives on election duties. Apam also told party agents to comport themselves at the polling units on the day of election, saying that unruly behaviour would not be condoned from any quarters. Also speaking at the meeting, Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operations, Mr Kabiru Gwarzo, said policemen on election duty would be given special tags for easy identification. He also said members of state, local government and community vigilante outfits would not be allowed to perform security services on election days. Gwarzo, who represented the state Commissioner of police at the briefing, said special arrangements have been made to identify fake policemen, promising that the police was ready to provide adequate security for election materials, officials and voters. An election observer and Executive Director, Centre for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution, Idris Miliki, urged security agencies to recognize the statutory duties of election observers and should allow them do their jobs without harassment and intimidation. Observers, party agents and other stakeholders at the meeting urged the police to see to the safety and security of observers, party agents and election materials. INEC assures physically challenged persons in Kogi of full participation in elections Stakeholders raise concerns over violence against women in elections Lokoja/Kogi by-election: INEC warns against vote buying