* vows to remove congestion in Lagos The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday said he would fulfil his promise to restructure Nigeria if elected in Saturday’s election. Atiku said, unlike the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which allegedly failed to deliver on its promises, he would fulfil his promises to restructure Nigeria and create jobs for millions of unemployed Nigerians. He spoke in Lagos during the PDP’s presidential rally held at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Lagos. Atiku who addressed the large gathering of PDP supporters also promised to remove congestion in Lagos state which he said had virtually crippled the economy of the state. He said the ruling party can no longer be trusted having failed to deliver on its promises, noting that Nigeria currently has the largest unemployment rate in the history of the country. He promised to reverse the trend by creating massive jobs as he has been doing in his private capacity. Atiku also vowed to respect the constitution, work with the National Assembly and protect the institution of the judiciary. He said, “Let me assure you and let me assure the people of Lagos state and South-West, you know I am not like APC. When I promise something I will do it. I promised Nigerians that I am going to restructure this country, I am going to do it. “Look at what they have done. Our traffic cannot move. On the day the President was coming, they removed all the trucks. No sooner he left all the trucks are back. With a PDP government, you are not going to have this congestion again. So the people of Lagos, please vote for PDP all the way”. Also speaking, the National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, lamented that many industries and businesses had shut down in Lagos which is the commercial capital of the Nigeria since the APC government came to power. He said Lagos by electing a PDP government in the forthcoming elections would regain freedom from the “hand of emperor”. “Since 2015, there has been go-slow in Lagos, all businesses shut down, all industries shut down. Unemployment has increased. Economy has collapsed. Security has collapsed,” he added. Similarly, the Director-General of the Atiku/Obi Presidential campaign and Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki stressed that Atiku’s election means better economy, jobs for the youth and prosperity for all Nigerians. Others who spoke at the rally included the former governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayo Fayose, former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George and former Governor of Ogun state, Otunba Gbenga Daniel. Atiku in Niger, promises women, youth employment 6 Days to Presidential Poll: Buhari, Atiku in Final Push for Votes 2019: Atiku’s SGF promise good for South-West — Ogunlewe