The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) is set to host the launch of a book by Emerging Africa Capital Group titled: “Riding The Eagle – A Guide To Investing in Nigeria” written by Toyin F. Sanni. The event is billed to hold tomorrow (Monday), at the Nigerian Stock Exchange office in Lagos. The book aims to provide an insider perspective on the opportunities and risks of investing in Nigeria, a statement from the organiser at the weekend noted. It added that the book is a guide for both local and international investors seeking to exploit the unique opportunities in the Nigerian economy, learn from the success stories of leading investors in Nigeria, as well as how to navigate the potential pitfalls and risks. The book launch is expected to host several distinguished speakers, including the CEO, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mr. Oscar Onyema, the Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms. Mary Uduk, Special Adviser to the President on Economic Matters, Dr. Adeyemi Dipeolu and the Group Chairman, Emerging Africa Capital, Chief MrsOnikepo Akande, CON. Emerging Africa will also present its Economic Report at the event. The report provides a review of 2018 and outlook for 2019. It x-rays the Nigerian Investment environment and sheds light on expectations for critical sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on the Renewable Energy Sector as an area of special focus. “We are delighted at the support we have received from the Securities and Exchange Commission “SEC” and the Nigerian Stock Exchange, “NSE” on this project, demonstrating the commitment of these two institutions to the imperative of providing objective information, incisive analysis and clear guidelines to domestic and international investors interested in the Nigerian market”, Sanni, who is the Group Chief Executive Officer of Emerging Africa Capital, said. Stanbic IBTC boosts market with security lending product Islamic Index underlies potential for huge investment NSE to woo diaspora  as local investors shun market