Former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday met leaders of top political parties and security chiefs in Ogun State, over violence which has characterised campaigns in the state ahead of the general elections. It would be recalled that no fewer than 10 supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) were injured and many campaign vehicles destroyed when both parties clashed on Thursday in Abeokuta. Obasanjo met the political parties’ leaders behind closed doors for more than two hours at Owu Hall inside the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, it was gathered. Briefing newsmen shortly after the meeting, the state Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Chief Wale Egunleti, said Obasanjo urged them to hold peaceful campaigns in the interest of all. Egunleti said “our father (Obasanjo) called the political parties for a meeting to shun thuggery, fighting and any other form of violence during and after the elections. “We want to serve the people and we must lead by example. Therefore, we have been warned and advised to keep peace in Ogun, for the benefit of all. “Also, we should maintain peace and ensure that we inform authorities about our plans and movement for security reasons.” He added that there would be subsequent meetings for review and monitor level of compliance. The governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka, described the meeting as a welcome development. “It is a welcome development. He is doing us a great favour. What happened on Thursday is not a good signal for us in Ogun State, with the level of democracy we have experienced,” Isiaka said. Among those who attended the meeting were; the Director General of the Dapo Abiodun Campaign Organization, Prince Segun Adesegun; the APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Yemi Sanusi; Zonal Director, Ogun West, APM Campaign Council, Jide Ojuko, while some security chiefs were represented. Obasanjo meets parties, security chiefs, warns against violence in Ogun 2019: Secondus, Jibrin, meet Obasanjo over grand alliance I am Godfather of APC - Obasanjo