Campaign periods all over the world are characterised by increased spending by politicians and the 2019 electioneering period in Nigeria is no different. Traders and service providers are having a boom as politicians bring out funds that have been stashed away to woo the electorate in anticipation of winning elections. Daily Trust compiled top trades and services that have been attracting large pool of funds from politicians, political parties and campaign organisations. Top among the trades is printing and branding as seen in the several branded shirts, umbrellas, caps and mufflers that adorn campaign venues in the various party colours. Daily Trust visited Abuja’s UTC market popularly known for printing and noticed that in addition to the branded political materials in display everywhere, printers are smiling to the bank with proceeds from printed campaign brochures, leaflets, posters, manifesto books and even compendium of achievements for politicians seeking second tenure in office. A printer in UTC, Peter Nduka, told this reporter that printing and branding works picked up since the middle of 2018 and that he was making money more than he did early last year and the previous years after the 2015 election. Nduka however noted that though there is a spike in the volume of printing and branding works he was attending to, he had higher volumes in 2015. “Money is not flowing like before. We are seeing work but not like the elections before. We thank God though,” he said. He said he had stopped all commercial printing jobs that were not related to elections as politicians and campaign organisations pay higher than individuals and government agencies. “I cannot be wasting my time printing wedding invitation cards when I have campaign posters to print and make more money,” he said, defending why he stopped attending to non-election printing works. Recall that in 2016 after President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office as president, the Federal Government directed Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to stop producing and distributing souvenirs at seminars and conferences, a measure designed to cut cost of governance. A statement issued then by the Director of Information, Federal Ministry of Finance, Salisu Nainna Dambatta, banned MDAs from procuring and distributing bags, T-shirts and other souvenirs at government functions. The Federal Government also issued cost-saving guidelines to MDAs on printing of invitation cards, programme of events, brochures, folders and notepads. Nduka said the current election period has offered printers and souvenir dealers a temporary reprieve from the effect of the ban that had reduced their earnings. Companies that are involved in advertisements, radio and television jingles and mobile public address systems are also making good money now. Daily Trust observed that all major bill boards, roundabouts and walls in Abuja have been taken over by political bills and posters. From Apo roundabout to Area 1 roundabout up to Galadimawa roundabout, all billboards have been taken over by political adverts. On radio and TV stations, most of the adverts being aired are political adverts, some put together by independent studios. Daily Trust also observed that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and petty traders are also cashing in on the campaign period to make huge turnover. One item that is attracting booming sales now is broom, and of course with the price now increased in the markets. A trader at Utako market, Sarah Ajani, told Daily Trust that a small bunch of broom now sells for N500 as against N100 it sold around the middle of last year. “I don’t even have it. These party people go to villages and buy everything. It is not even in the market. Go round and check. It will be hard for you to see brooms on sale,” she said. Similar to broom trading is umbrella trading but unlike brooms, umbrellas are not scarce and the price remains relatively stable. This is largely because one of the parties that uses umbrella as its logo imports them in bulk or contracts companies to mass produces them. However, Daily Trust also learnt that traders who deal in umbrellas also make good turnover as politicians resort to the open markets to make up for shortfalls. Meanwhile, around venues of political rallies, food vendors, sachet water hawkers, soft drink hawkers and snack sellers also record huge patronage.  Campaign posters without party logos adorn states Vote4WASH sensitises electorates to demand water, sanitation services from leaders Reflections on Nigeria’s democratic space