Governors of Adamawa, Borno and Kaduna states have said that the security challenges in some parts of their states will not affect the forthcoming elections. The governors spoke after a security council meeting, presided over by president Muhamamdu Buhari at the Villa today. The security council meeting, which lasted for an hour, was attended by Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Jibrilla Bindow (Adamawa) and Kashim Shettima (Borno). Members of the country’s national security council were also in attendance. Briefing State House reporters after the meeting, El-Rufai said they briefed the president and head of security agencies on the situation in their respective states. “Shettima submitted a comprehensive report on the situation in Borno and Yobe states, Governor of Adamwa presented a situation report regarding Adamawa and I (El-Rufai) submitted a briefing based on what has been happening in kaduna state in the last few weeks and months. “We noted a significant improvement in the security situation across our states, inspite of the challenges. And thanks to the federal government for making available its security assets to the states any time we needed them that has led to some level of stablisation of the situation. “Across the states, we are ready for the elections. We do not believe that the level of security challenges will prevent elections from taking place all over our states. “Of course, in the case of Borno state, other than one or two local governments that the people may vote outside their immediate domain, every voter in Borno state will vote in his local government, compared to the situation in 2015 when most of the voters in Borno state had to vote in Maiduguri. This is not the case this time around. “In the case of Adamawa State, apart from Madagali that is close to Sambisa, there have been no major challenge, and even there with the enhanced presence of security forces, we are confident that there will be no problem conducting elections. “In Kaduna state, we requested for an enhanced military presence in particular locations that were either afflicted by rural banditry. These are Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Chikun and areas where there have been history of either electoral violence or ethno- religious intolerance. We have already mapped out with the GOC and the commissioner of police. “We have made adeguate arrangements to ensure that every citizen of Kaduna state will be free to vote in an atmosphere of peace and security. We got assurances from Mr. President that whatever security asset we need, additional to what is already on ground to ensure that there are peaceful and hitch free elections on Saturday, those assets will be provided. All we need to do is to ask,” he said. 130 people killed in 'Kajuru genocide', El-Rufai tells Buhari BREAKING: Buhari, 3 Governors, Security Chiefs in crucial meeting Minimum Wage: Governors meet Buhari today