The West Africa Network for Peace-building (WANEP-Nigeria) has decried the open vote buying recorded in parts of the country during the Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. This is contained in the organisation’s Election Day statement jointly presented by Prof. Olawale Albert and Dr. Aisha Abdullahi, the co-chairs of the WANEP-Nigeria election situation room in Abuja. According to the report, the organisation, which deployed 114 election observers is using the Arc GIS technology, developed by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to monitor the elections. Observers reported that the commencement of voting in most polling stations across the country were late due to late arrival of polling officials and materials. “In some cases, as at 10am, materials were yet to be distributed to areas such as Gwagwalada Area Council of FCT and Mashi LGA of Katsina state. “In an isolated case, the absence of security personnel at Shehu Manzo ward of Gombe LGA, Gombe state resulted in delay of the commencement of polls,” the report said. It said that card readers were not functioning appropriately in some stations visited including Ward 4, PU 002 at St. Jonathan in Ondo state, and also Yardole Kasuwa area of Kebbi state, but that the technicians addressed the situation. “Observers noted the inducement of voters in Kumbotso LGA of Kano state and Konshisha LGA of Benue state, where voters were reportedly seen receiving money from party stalwarts to vote their preferred candidates. “Key violent incidents reported include shooting in Ayingba, Dekina LGA of Kogi State; fighting in Ward 18 Khana, Port Harcourt, Rivers state following alleged snatching of voting materials,” the report said. The report listed 31 critical incidences capable of undermining the credibility of the polls including in Borno and Yobe states, where armed attacks and explosions were reported in some locations and the widespread violence in Lagos and other states. It said, “In Kogi State, a 19-year old boy was killed at PU 006 Ajetachi in Ayangba Kogi state over refusal to vote for a party. Ballot boxes were burnt in Okesi ward of Ogori/Magongo LGA. “In Akwa Ibom state, polling officials were reportedly abducted and election materials destroyed in Itu LGA; and ballot boxes were also reportedly snatched by political thugs in Ini LGA. “In Zamfara state, election materials were reportedly destroyed in PU 004 of Madawaki ward, a situation that disrupted the voting process. “In response, the police fired sporadic gunshots to disperse suspected thugs and moved the election materials to the central police station. “In Yobe state, a 35-year old man was shot by military men of 223 Brigade Command, Buni Gari, Gujba LGA at 8:30am and died by 1:00pm.” It therefore urged candidates and political parties to abide by the Peace Accord and refrain from inflammatory statements or publication of results and all acts capable of instigating violence as the nation await the official announcement of results by INEC. Ekiti election may be determined by highest bidder, Group warns Our fears for 2019 polls – International monitors INEC: One year of inconclusive polls