Cement manufacturer, Lafarge Africa, has rewarded its performing trade partners for excellent performance in the year 2018. The Customer Appreciation Awards, which held in three cities of Gombe, Ibadan, and Enugu, celebrated customers who distribute Lafarge Africa’s range of products from Ewekoro and Sagamu in the South West, Mfamosing in the South-South and Ashaka in the North East of Nigeria. The company, in a statement, said prizes given to outstanding customers included 11 tonne trucks, 5 tonne trucks, commercial tricycles and an all-expense paid trip to Saudi Arabia, among others. Lafarge said the 2018 awards is a major landmark as it coincides with Lafarge Africa’s 60th year of sustainable business practice in Nigeria. The company, which pioneered commercial cement production in Nigeria, started operations in 1959 (then as West African Portland Cement Company, WAPCO) and has played a significant role in building homes, offices, roads, bridges, monuments and cities across Nigeria. Speaking at the South East awards, the Commercial Director, Lafarge Africa, Gbenga Onimowo, commended distributors for their contribution to the growth and success of the company’s business in the previous year. “As partners in progress, we will support our customers with tools and training initiatives to develop their human capacity as well as their business processes,” he stated. On his part, the Country Chief Executive Officer, Lafarge Africa, Mr. Michel Puchercos who was in Gombe for the awards, expressed appreciation to all the distributors for their remarkable performance in keeping the Lafarge range of products as one of the top brands in the market. Based on set target for each customer category, highest performing dealers, who exceeded the targets, were rewarded with 11 tonne trucks and 5 tonne trucks while the next level of sub-dealers were rewarded with cargo tricycles. In total, Lafarge Africa presented eighteen 11 tonne trucks, four 5 tonne truck; 60 cargo tricycles and all-expense paid trip to Saudi Arabia. AshakaCem rewards loyal customers with trucks, trip to Umrah Lafarge-Holcim merger takes root in Nigerian Cement market Lafarge-Holcim merger takes root in Nigerian Cement market