Business activates are gradually picking up in Kaduna State after the just concluded 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections even though many shops have remained closed for fear of any untoward eventuality. Banks and fuel stations are, however, open for business as customers trooped in to conduct their transaction as well as fill their tanks. Eateries and many supermarkets have also remained closed except for a few that were defying the odds in a bid to catch the few customers that re likely to need one commodity or the other. Our correspondent who visited the popular Sheikh Gummi and Chechenia markets reports that many stalls remained closed and the few traders who opened their shops complained of low patronage as there were very  few people in the market. However, most shops along Ibadan Street, Nupe road, Lagos Street and Kano road, amongst others, where Igbo traders hawked their goods remained closed and the traders were seen in clusters in front of some shops discussing the election. Our correspondent observed that the ever busy Ahmadu Bello Way was also a shadow of itself as very few buses and other vehicles were seen plying the road. A trader of Belgium (used) kitchen utensils who simply gave his name as Mr. Uzo said, “I am not opening my shop today except that when a customer comes, I will quickly open, sell to the customer and close again which is the reason why you see us standing in front of our shops.” On why he was scared of opening for full business, he said, “I have witnessed the 2011 election crisis. it was very difficult for me to reunite with my family because of the election violence that erupted after the results were announced that is why I am being very careful. I pray that when the results are announced, people will accept it in good faith.” Another trader, Yakubu Aminu, who sells yam in Sheikh Gummi market described the patronage as very low. “There is nobody in the market. People are afraid of the outcome of the election that is why they decided to stay at home but for me, I need the money to cater for the needs of my family since I was not able to come out for two days that is why I came out to the market.” He lamented that since he came to the market at 9am, he has sold only five tubers of yam totaling N2,000. He, however, commended the peaceful conduct of the elections saying, “We are happy that security agents and Nigerians cooperated and conducted themselves peacefully and I pray that when the results are announced, the same peace will remain.” Also, a food vendor along Muhammadu Buhari Way, Mrs. Ladi Usman, said “I only cooked small amount of food because I do not want to be left with the food just like it happened to me in 2015.” Kaduna residents groan under 24-hour curfew Fragile peace slows down Jos, Maiduguri We cried like babies   – Ibadan tanker fire survivors