The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to pull out of the 2019 presidential peace pact signed in the last quota of 2018 under the watch of the Abdulsalami Abubakar National Peace Committee. The PDP said it would pull out following due consideration of comments, threats and incendiary actions by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government, which it said were directly inimical to a peaceful, free and fair election. But the Buhari Media Organization (BMO) had countered, saying the PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, never wanted to sign the peace pact. The Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, told newsmen at a press conference yesterday in Abuja that if no action was immediately taken by the peace panel, the party would withdraw from the pact. The PDP also called on international authorities to impose travel ban on Gov. Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State for allegedly saying on a national television that members of the international community working for a peaceful election in Nigeria would return to their countries in body bags. “Also of particular note is the plot to redeploy a former Chief Security Officer to APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, CP Kayode Egbetokun, as Kwara State Commissioner of Police, where he has been handed the instruction to incite the people, cause pandemonium and pave the way for outright rigging in favour of President Buhari and all other candidates on the platform of APC. “This is in line with plans by the Buhari presidency and the APC to effect a mass deployment of top security officers, particularly the police, to intimidate, harass and manhandle Nigerians that will not support the self-succession bid of President Muhammadu Buhari, as well as aiding APC thugs to snatch ballot boxes and orchestrate violence in the elections. “Nigerians are aware of how CP Kayode Egbetokun was posted to Lagos State by the disgraced former Inspector General of Police, Idris Ibrahim, to serve the same partisan interest, and how that posting was stopped by the new IGP, Adamu Mohammed. Now he is being redeployed to Kwara State for the same ignoble plot. “Very importantly, the PDP calls on the National Peace Committee to note the infractions by the APC and its leaders to the peace accord, including the provocative shutdown of all the stadia in Kano State by the state Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, in order to frustrate the PDP presidential campaign rally in the state,” he said. Responding to the threat, BMO Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju, said it took intensive pressure on Atiku before he “grudgingly consented to sign the peace accord more than 48 hours after all willing consenters to the accord had done so.” According to him, “In issuing this threat at this time is in furtherance of the PDP’s Dubai agenda to build a case for the disruption of the presidential election or at the minimum, create a perception of ill will around the election with intent at discrediting the election which they know they will lose even before they commenced formal campaign. “To advance their evil agenda, in their desperation, they have continued to throw all manners of tantrums, rubbishing institutions of states without any modicum of patriotism and civility.”  PDP threatens to pull out of presidential peace pact Atiku’s assent to peace pact afterthought – BMO 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord