The Lagos State governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on their success at the 2019 presidential election, saying “it was a victory well deserved.” Ambode, in a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Habib Aruna, said the victory was “not just a confirmation of the people’s love for Pres Buhari, but an attestation that Nigerians were happy with the progress the federal government has made in the last four years.” The governor said, “This is a victory for democracy; it is a victory for good governance and a clear statement from Nigerians that they are ready to move to the next level with Pres Muhammadu Buhari.” He expressed confidence that the President Buhari-led administration would consolidate on the achievements of the last four years and justify the renewal of his mandate by millions of Nigerians at the polls. “This is a threshold of our political history. I urge Nigerians to rally round the federal government and support the drive to take the nation to the next level,”Ambode said. He also commended Lagos residents for coming out in thousands to vote, and for being peaceful and orderly throughout the period of the elections. Besides, the governor congratulated candidates of the party in the National Assembly elections who emerged victorious, saying that with the APC in the majority in both chambers, Pres Buhari would get the needed support from the legislative arm of government to transform Nigeria for good. Also, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, has congratulated Pres Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) “on the resounding and well-deserved victory recorded at the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly Elections.” Obasa, in his congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Musbau Rasak, stated that the victory recorded by the President and the party had shown “a clear desire of Nigerians to be taken to the next level by the APC administration at all levels.” The Speaker also commended INEC for its performance. “Commendations from local and international observers have confirmed the commendable performance of the electoral process, and I will give INEC a pass mark for its performance,” he said.  Buhari needs more time to clear 16-year-old rot – Razak FG hands over Presidential Lodge, Marina, to LASG 2019: We will campaign vigorously for Buhari, Sanwo-Olu, says Ambode