The PDP has asked INEC to cancel the results of last Saturday’s presidential election in Borno, Zamfara, Yobe and Nasarawa states and a new date be fixed for a fresh poll. The party also demanded that INEC should stop the collation of the  results of the election until data from the smart card reader accreditation at the polling units were made available to all the political parties which participated in the election. Addressing a press conference, yesterday, in Abuja, the Deputy Director General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, alleged that the smart card readers were reconfigured to manipulate the election in favour of APC. Turaki, a former minister of Special Duties claimed that in Yobe, the total number of votes submitted as cast was more than the number of accredited voters, saying the number of accredited voters was 601,056 while the total votes cast was 775,449. “This is a clear case of over-voting which, by the provisions of the Electoral Act renders the election null and void. In such instance, the law provides for another election on a day to be fixed by INEC,” he said. In Zamfara, the party claimed that no actual voting took place, adding there were no result sheets in any polling unit in the entire state. “Also, in Borno State, there was no election but a figure writing exercise and allocation of results according to the whims and caprices of the APC leaders. We also demand the outright deletion of the results from Borno from INEC records and a conduct of free, fair and credible presidential election in Borno,” he said. The party demanded the immediate “restoration” of over 157,000 votes in Nasarawa, 79,000 in Kogi, 27,000 in the FCT and 30,000 in Plateau, totalling 293,000 votes which it alleged were manipulated to the advantage of APC. “The PDP predicates its demand on available evidence to the effect that data from the card readers are being reconfigured to suit the manipulations, rigging and over-voting already carried out during the election in some states by the All Progressives Congress (APC). “We have evidence from the smart card reader accreditation data that what is being announced by INEC has been seriously tampered with and manipulated. JUST IN: PDP demands cancellation of presidential poll results in Yobe, Zamfara, Borno, Nasarawa #NigeriaDecides: Buhari defeats Atiku with 447,151 votes margin in Yobe PDP rejects results as Buhari maintains lead