The Ekiti State government has indicated its desire to recommend the establishment of more police posts in communities that share boundaries with neighbouring states to tackle insecurity. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, also disclosed that perimeter fencing would be constructed in all public primary schools in the state to ensure the security of pupils and teachers. According to a statement by Egbeyemi’s Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, the deputy governor gave these assurances yesterday while responding to requests by community leaders from Imesi Ekiti in Gbonyin Local Government Council, who visited him in his office. The community leaders, led by the regent, Mrs Mabel Essoh, had voiced their objection to a request for autonomy by Okun quarters in Imesi. Egbeyemi, who said government would not fold its arms and allow security breach under whatever guise, said security needed to be beefed up at the boundary communities in Imesi to prevent criminals from infiltrating the state. He explained that security posts at boundary towns and construction of perimeter fencing in schools are part of measures to tackle kidnapping and other criminal activities. According to him, the recent presentation of cheques to communities to enable them commence work on abandoned projects in their areas were part of efforts to ensure development in the grassroots. The deputy governor also dropped the hint that the federal government would soon commence the reconstruction of the Ado-Ikare road which passes through Imesi and links the state with Akoko in Ondo State. Stressing the commitment of the Fayemi administration to infrastructural development, Egbeyemi added that the completion of works at Egbe Dam would increase the supply of water to communities in the state. Egbeyemi warned that no quarter in Imesi had been granted autonomy, saying anybody who parades himself as a king aside the recognized monarch in the community risks going to jail. The community’s spokesman, Chief Oluwadare Adeyemo, demanded the establishment of a police station in Imesi and completion of the king’s palace. Traditional chiefs want official recognition to curb crime in Ekiti Ekiti urges truce in 76-yr-old community dispute Deputy gov, monarchs move to end Ekiti boundary dispute