A Sharia Court sitting at Magajin Gari, Kaduna, has handed over the custody of two children to their mother after she sued her former husband of taking them to an Almajiri school. The court also ordered the former husband to pay N6000 monthly feeding allowance to the mother. The presiding Judge, Malam Dahiru Lawal, in his judgment Tuesday ruled that the mother should take custody of the two children till they reach the adult age. He also ordered that the former husband should be responsible for the children’s feeding, schools fees and other educational materials, healthcare and clothing. The mother Jamila Abubakar, a resident of Rido area Kaduna city had,  dragged her former husband, Isah Aliyu, to the Sharia Court for taking their children to an Almajiri’ school in Kargi village in Kaduna. She prayed the court to formally document the divorce pronounced on her by the former former husband and compel him to return the children to her so that they could continue their education. “I am the one that enrolled my children in both western and Islamic schoosl in Kaduna and they have been performing well in both schools.” The defendant denied the allegation of taking the children to an Almajiri school and told the court that the children were being well taken care of by his parents and his new wife in Kargi village. Aliyu also informed the court that he divorced his former wife for refusing to relocate to his village with him after several pleas. The court had on January 31 returned the two children  Uzairu Isah, 10,  and Muhammed Isah 7, to the mother’s custody pending the determination of the case. In his judgment the judge said that based on the evidence presented to the court he has ruled that the children be returned to their mother and that the sum of N6000 as monthly feeding allowance for the children be paid directly to the mother. The court also granted the prayer of the plaintiff  on documentation of her divorce and issued the letter to her to that effect. The court further ordered the ex-wife to always notify her ex-husband in good time on the needs of his children to enable him meet them. Efforts made by Arewa Trust to get the reaction of the defendant proved abortive as he declined to comment on the judgement. Woman sues ex-husband for taking kids to Almajiri school Court dissolves 7-yr-old marriage over abandonment A woman after my own heart