The Federal High Court, Lagos, yesterday convicted the former managing director of the defunct Integrated Microfinance Bank Limited, Lagos, Mr Simon Ademola Akinteye, for a $166.9 million fraud crime. The court, presided over by Justice Cecilia Mojisola Olatoregun, convicted Akinteye after finding him guilty of a nine-count charge bordering on reckless granting of loans without collateral levelled against him by the Department of Public Prosecution, Federal Ministry of Justice. The court, however, discharged and acquitted his deputy, Gabriel Adepoju, who was charged on a count charge of unlawful diversion of N22.250m to a printing company named Gad Press Limited. Justice Olatoregun has adjourned till February 21, 2019 for the sentencing of the former bank chief. The DPP had alleged that the two bank directors recklessly and without collateral approved credit facilities running into $166m and N33.250m to themselves and one Mrs Temitope Muhammed Imam. Akinteye was said to have at different times withdrawn from the bank’s account the total sum of N11m and diverted it into his personal company, Deblad Nigeria Limited. He was also said to have unlawfully withdrawn a total sum of $166m, which he paid into the account of Imam domiciled with Citi Bank N. A. of Utica/Clarkson, 702, Utica Avenue, Brooklyn New York, United States of America, and another account domiciled with Washington Mutual, 391, Eastern Parkway, Belford Avenue, New York, USA. The second defendant, Adepoju, was alleged to have withdrawn a total sum of N22.250m, which he diverted to a limited liability company, Gad Press Limited. Prior to the arraignment of the defendants on May 18, 2016, their lawyer, A.O. Sheriff, had, through a notice of preliminary objection, urged the court to dismiss the charges on the ground that the defendants had earlier been acquitted and discharged by Justice Okon Abang of the same court when they were formerly arraigned. But Justice Olatoregun had dismissed the defendants’ lawyer’s application on the ground that the facts of charges were not the same. Trial of 2 bank ex-directors: Court shifts judgment day N304.1 m fraud: Jauro, former Acting DG of NIMASA, moves for plea bargain Alleged N12.2bn fraud: Patience Jonathan to know fate Feb. 11