The African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State on Friday asked the Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Prof Abdulganiyu Raji to produce 6,053 missing ballot papers for the House of Representatives election in Imeko – Afon local government area of the state. In a petition addressed to Raji, the party officials alleged that out of 62,853 ballot papers meant for election in the area, 6,053 ballot papers are missing. The petition was jointly signed by ADC candidate for Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency, Jimoh Aremu Olaifa, ADC Chairman in the LG, Kayode Elegbede and the party’s agent, Ben Ibikunle. They expressed surprise, however, that the same 62,853 ballot papers meant for Presidential and Senatorial in the council were complete. The petitioners asked the REC to produce the missing ballots “immediately to safeguard the credibility of this election and nip in the bud ongoing speculation that can threaten law and order in the local government.” The petition partly reads “Records from our agents at the Ogun State INEC office showed that a total of 62,853 ballot papers were released from the state office for Imeko-Afon LG. “However, at the Imeko-Afon INEC office, only 56,790 ballot papers was physically sighted and counted by our agent, agents of other political parties and security personnel leaving a shortage of 6,053 ballots papers. “Interestingly, the same number of 62,843 ballot papers released for the Presidential and Senatorial elections was physically sighted and counted by all concerned at the INEC office, Imeko Afon.” When contacted, the Head of Voters Education and Publicity for INEC in the state, Mrs Adenike Tadese, confirmed that there was shortfall of ballot papers in the council, but said there is no cause for alarm. “The carton was never tampered with, it was when they got there (Local Government) that they realised that some ballot papers were missing. “The Electoral Officer had already held stakeholders’ meeting to inform them of what transpired. “So, there is no shady deal about that. We have already requested for the shortfall, which will be given to us. So, there is no problem about it.” Akwa Ibom guber: Tribunal overrules INEC on destroyed ballot papers Akwa Ibom guber: Tribunal overrules INEC on destroyed ballot papers Ogun electorate set for March 2 revolution, says Akinlade