The Managing Director of Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base (LADOL), Amy Jadesimi, has been named the oil and gas leading woman. She received the award at the 2019 Petroleum Industry Award in recognition of her sterling performance in the oil and gas servicing industry. The award, organised by the Foreign Investment Network (FIN) and the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, held at the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit in Abuja. The organisers said the award is an acknowledgement of Dr Jadesimi’s significant contributions to the oil and gas servicing industry and maritime sector development in Africa, including leading LADOL which achieved the first successful part-fabrication and integration of the world’s largest Floating Production Storage and Offloading, FPSO, in Nigeria. She was also recognised as the managing director and chief executive officer of the first sustainable industry special economic zone in Africa, in addition to her prominent membership in various business sustainability and advisory boards. Speaking at the awards ceremony, Micheal Dragoyevich, Chief Executive of Foreign Investment Network, described the award as a recognition for business leaders like Dr Amy Jadesimi, trail blazers, policy makers and investors in the oil and gas sector in Africa for their contributions. Jadesimi thanked the Foreign Investment Network (FIN) and Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources for the award. “The award is a great honour and it represents the success LADOL has achieved thanks only to the 18 years of hard work and dedication of our founders and our staff. LADOL is all about team work and I’m very proud to lead the men and women who work at LADOL. Our team work shined through not only in the success of the Egina project but also in achieving our ISO 9001, 14001 and 45001 last year. “We also thank our clients Total and Shell, who have shown their faith in LADOL and supported genuine local content in Nigeria,” she said. FIN also recognised Alhaji Aliko Dangote with FIN Oil and Gas African Icon of the year Award, Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina, the President, African Development Bank, also got FIN African Icon of the Year Award, Hadiza Bala Usman, Managing Director, Nigeria Ports Authority, NPA, received FIN Award of Excellence, among other recipients. LADOL’s MD, Amy Jadesimi awarded FIN Leading Women Award 2019 LADOL commits N57bn on Egina project Jonathan relocates $500m FTZ project to Balyesa