The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and African Development Bank (AfDB) have signed a $22.7 million agreement for the Abidjan-Lagos corridor highway development project to increase trade and investment among member states. The duo also signed the contracts for the feasibility, environmental, socio-economic impact and detailed engineering design study for the six-lane Abidjan-Lagos corridor highway project. Signing the pact yesterday in Abuja, the President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jeane-Claude Brou, said the signing of the Grant Retrogression Agreement was in line with the requirement for the disbursement of grant funds from the European Union (EU) from its African Investment Facility (AfIF) for the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project. The EU contributed €9.13m while AfDB contributed $11.06m, making a total of $22.72m for the project. Jeaune-Claude said the project was necessary because despite progress in ECOWAS performance, infrastructure still remained a challenge, adding that the regional strategic framework for ECOWAS had prioritised development of key regional infrastructure to foster a competitive business environment. The President of AfDB, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, represented by the Senior Director of AfDB, Ebirima Faal, said West Africa, like the rest of Africa, was a patchwork of small and largely disparate economies, adding that it needed larger and deeper market integration to justify and promote the industrialisation that was so important for its economic development. He said promoting regional integration was enshrined in articles establishing the AfDB and was a key pillar in the high five priorities of the bank and that was why they were investing in high quality regional transport infrastructures throughout the continent. He also said the Abidjan-Lagos corridor highway study was to undertake all the needed technical studies for the effective implementation, operations and economic development of a six-lane (three-lane dual) highway corridor, adding that the corridor would traverse primarily between Abidjan and Lagos, and Lome and Cotonou. “The bank has successfully mobilised €9.1m grant from the EU commission, bringing the total financing in this important project to $22.2m. The technical design, study activities and outputs will include, inter alia: PPP structuring and transaction advisory; the establishment of a new supra-national semi-autonomous corridor, including the corresponding institutional, legal operations and management framework, a spatial development framework and master plan for the corridor and; trade, transport, transit and border procedures.” Lagos-Abidjan highway to gulp $2bn ECOWAS approves $50m for Lagos-Abidjan road project ‘Terrorism, trans-border crimes threats to W/Africa’s stability’