A mild drama unfolded at the weekend when a bus believed to be carrying armed robbery suspects plunged into a ditch at the Jibowu area of Lagos. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, told City News yesterday that neighbours had observed a robbery gang burgling a store about 1am at No. 11, Oweh Street, Jibowu, and informed them. Based on the information, a team of policemen from the Sabo Division, Yaba, was deployed to the scene of crime. Oti said that on sighting the approaching police van, the robbers sped off in a Mercury Villager space wagon registration number PG 393 AAA to avoid being arrested. However, while fleeing, the bus plunged into a ditch. “The Divisional Police Officer led a team of policemen to confront the hoodlums. On getting close to the scene, they sighted the space wagon parked in front of the store. “The hoodlums, on seeing the approaching police team, sped off, driving against traffic (one way) in their desperation to evade arrest. They were, however, given a hot chase by the police operatives. But the occupants of the bus started firing at the team. “The policemen fired back at them and in the process, the bus fell into a ditch. Some of the robbers escaped with bullet wounds, but one of them who sustained a bullet injury on the right leg was caught with three big sacks containing different sizes of shoes, bags, clothes and other items. He was arrested and taken to the station,” he added. Oti said that during interrogation, the suspect gave his name as Paul Ozurumba of No. 6, Igbobi Sabe Street, Jibowu, Yaba. “A search warrant was executed in his house and refrigerators, pharmaceutical drugs, bale of underwear, televisions and other properties suspected to have been stolen were recovered from him. Meanwhile, two other members of his gang, namely Stanley Sungalome and Michael Agbunwor, have also been arrested and have confessed to committing the crime,” he said.   Robbery suspect pleads with police to arrest colleagues for pushing him out of their bus Six armed robbery suspects arrested in Lagos Police kill robbery suspect under Mabushi bridge