The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has been denied access to Old Parade Ground, the venue slated for its mega rally today, in Abuja, less than a week to the presidential poll. The party therefore, could not go on with its campaign in Abuja, as planned. The PDP accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency of being behind the refusal, stressing that it was part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s “desperate plans” to actualise self succession on May 29. Addressing a press conference on Saturday in Abuja, the Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said after making payment and obtaining a receipt to use the venue on Saturday, the Federal Capital Territory (FCTA) later invited them to go and collect their money. “We were told there is an order from the above, that we can’t use that place. We have been invited to go and collect our money but we refused because there was no such agreement. The APC can’t stop us from campaigning in Abuja. “We must hold our mega rally in Abuja. Buhari and the APC can’t stop us from using any facility in Abuja, because they didn’t build them; the consequences they will not be able to manage. We will take a decision today and announce to Nigerians when the rally will hold. “It is part of the plot by the frustrated President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to drag the PDP and the people’s candidate to their low level of frustration in order to enmesh the coming election into crisis so as to achieve their self-succession bid. “However, any further attack on our campaign will therefore attract very dire response from Nigerians who look up to Atiku Abubakar to salvage our dear nation from the social, economic and political despondency, which President Buhari has plunged her into. “Nigeria belongs to all of us and nobody can stop us from exercising our constitutionally guaranteed right of holding our rally in the FCT or any other part of our country for that matter,” the PDP said. PDP suspends Abuja Mega Rally 2019 campaigns: Story behind ‘mammoth’ crowds APC, PDP in fight to finish over Ekiti