President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday that he is only seeking a second term in office and not a third term like some people did. Buhari said this while speaking with Ondo State Council of Obas in Akure, ahead of his reelection campaign in the state. The comments were seen as taking a dig at-President Olusegun Obasanjo who reportedly sought for third term but failed to actualize it. In his Twitter handle, Tolu Ogunlesi, the Special Assistant on Digital/New Media, quoted  the president as saying, “We have just finished one term and are seeking a second one. After that, the constitution doesn’t permit any more.” “There are some who tried looking for more but they did not succeed. We should learn from their mistakes.” The president who letter spoke at a rally said Nigeria’s economy was on the right track considering the steps being taken by his administration. He said the fight against Boko Haram in the North East had been successful in the last three and half years, saying the sect no longer controlled any local government area. And in Ekiti State, Buhari declared that fighting corruption in a nation like Nigeria was not an easy task. President Buhari made the confession while addressing a crowd of party supporters at the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, during his re-election campaign. The president, however, said despite the herculean task, he would never be dissuaded to rid the nation of graft in line with the promise he made in 2015 to banish corruption in the land. “We are fighting corruption, but it has not been easy. But we told the security agencies to keep tabs on those on our watch list and ensure that no stone is left unturned to ensure that those who have cases to answer do not escape justice,” he said. Two members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Cecelia Dada (Ilejemeje Constituency) and Olanrewaju Olayanju (Emure Constituency), who were presented by the Speaker, Ebenezer Alagbada, decamped to the APC. On his part, Prof. Osinbajo who condemned the alleged extravagance of the PDP during its 16 years rule, said “A sum of $383bn accrued from oil between 2010 and 2014 under Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, but he achieved nothing for the country.”  Traffic direction of Maja Maja 2019 Presidency: Strong signals Buhari’ll run again 2019: Who will run if Buhari decides not to?