A nongovernmental organisation has asked a Federal High Court in Abuja to determine the circumstances surrounding the citizenship of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. In the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/177/2019 dated February 11, 2019, the Incorporated Trustees of Egalitarian Mission For Africa, filed the suit on Monday through their counsel, Kayode Ajulo. By the suit, the plaintiff wanted an interpretation of Section 25(1) & (2) and 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, (as amended). Other defendants in the suit were the PDP, INEC and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. The NGO wants the court to determine, “Whether Section 25 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I999 (as amended) is the sole authority that spells out ways by which a person can become a Nigerian citizen by birth.” The group claimed that a plebiscite was held in British Cameroons to determine whether the people preferred to stay in Cameroon or align with Nigeria. “That while Northern Cameroon preferred a union with Nigeria, Southern Cameroon chose alignment with the mother country. “That on June 1, I961, Northern Cameroon became part of Nigeria, and on October 1, 1961, the Southern territory dissolved into Cameroon,” the group said. It, therefore, wants the court to determine “Whether by the provisions of Section 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I999 (as amended), only a Nigerian citizen by birth can contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Whether by the combined interpretation of Sections 25(1) & (2) and 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I999 (as amended) and given the circumstances surrounding the birth of the 1st Defendant (Atiku), he can be cleared by the 2nd and 3rd defendants to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria?” If the answers to the aforesaid questions are resolved in favour of the plaintiff, consequently, the group was seeking the following reliefs. A “declaration that by the provisions of Section 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), only a Nigerian citizen by birth can contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Atiku was reportedly born in Jada in the present Adamawa State. At the time of his birth, the place was reportedly under northern Cameroon. Citizenship of candidates had been a major source of controversy in elections of several African countries. Certificate: Court to hear suit against Wike Feb 25 APP, CUPP drag Buhari, PSC to court over IGP's tenure APP, CUPP sue Buhari over IG tenure