Robert Kelly, a.k.a R.Kelly, gets to walk away from jail after pleading not guilty to all 10 counts and paying 100, 000 dollars bail bond. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that R Kelly, a black American and a native of Chicago, is a singer, songwriter, record producer, and former professional basketball player. R.Kelly is a free man, at least temporarily, as he was able to come up with the 100, 000 dollars before getting bail. According to TMZ reports, the music icon is able to get bail after it was revealed that he will have to pay off a six-figure child support. TMZ said that Kelly’s bond, which was 10 per cent of his one million dollars bail, was finally posted Monday, Feb. 25, after he appeared in court and entered a not guilty to plea to all 10 counts of aggravated sexual abuse. The report also noted that less than 24 hours to his release, it was reported that there was another sex tape involving the music icon and a teenager, which according to a lawyer, was worse than the previously released tape. According to TMZ, the lawyer Michael Avenatti, will turn over a 55-minute VHS video to Cook County prosecutors. “It was also revealed that the video shows R. Kelly having sex with the same 14-year-old girl depicted in the first video Avenatti obtained, which was shot in 1999. “This second video was shot around 2000. Just like the previous video, there are multiple references to the girl being 14 years. “At one point, it is revealed that R. Kelly is seen choking the girl while having anal intercourse,’’ it said. Also sources close to TMZ, also said that there was a part where he took some sort of lotion and “sprays” it all over her face. It is also revealed that he then choked her, mounts her from behind and turns her face to the camera for a reaction shot. A small crowd had gathered outside the court booing and calling the music icon names as he walked away a free man. Immediately after his bail however, R.Kelly and his crew took a break and went on to have a quick lunch. (NAN) R. Kelly bond on sexual assault charges set at $1 million, due back in court Monday Senator Adeleke arraigned, granted bail on self-recognition N93m bribe: Lawan, Emenalo get bail