Snippets of results from yesterday’s presidential election were emerging last night with declarations made at various polling units. However, a clear trend is expected to emerge before the end of today when collated results are declared in wards, local governments and possibly some states as well. Results from hundreds of polling units were received in our Newsroom last night but the Electoral Act prohibits newspapers from announcing those results. However, the declarations made at the polling units monitored by our reporters showed that the frontline presidential candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari and that of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar were in a fierce battle to secure every vote from the electorate. Buhari who cast his vote at the Sarkin Yara Ward A, Kofar Baru polling unit (03) in Daura Local Government area of Katsina State along with his wife, Aisha, around 8:09am said that he was hopeful of winning the presidential election. Speaking with newsmen shortly after casting his vote, Buhari who expressed hope of victory said: “So far so good. Everything is going smoothly.” Asked if he will accept defeat, congratulate the winner and handover power eventually, Buhari said: “I will congratulate myself; I am going to be the winner. Thank you very much.” The president reportedly created a scene when he peeped at the ballot paper of his wife, Aisha, apparently to know who she voted for. Aisha hails from Adamawa, where President Buhari’s main challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the PDP comes from. Our correspondent reports that Aisha Buhari was the first to cast her vote and while moving towards the ballot box, the president stretched his neck to know who she voted for, a development that elicited a general laughter at the polling unit. An ailing voter, Bashar Mamman (25) who voted at the same polling unit with Buhahi died over four hours after casting his vote, reportedly for Buhari. Mustapha Abdullahi Ako, a resident said, “Mamman voted shortly before 2: pm and died around 6.30pm. He was complaining of stomach ache and was rushed to the hospital where he died. He was aided to the polling unit on wheelchair.” On his part, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, said he looked forward to a successful transition after the election. The Wazirin Adamawa, who voted at Ajiya 02 polling unit of Gwadabawa Ward, Yola North Local Government Area of Adamawa State, expressed satisfaction with the turnout of voters, hoping that the electoral officers would cope with the huge number. “So far so good, I am impressed with the turnout of people. I hope the electoral officer will be able to cope with the turnout.” When asked about his expectation of the outcome, Atiku said: “I look forward to a successful transition. That is what I look forward to.” On whether he would accept the results of the election, the PDP presidential candidate simply said: “I’m a democrat.” APC, PDP chieftains deliver their units Declarations made at the various polling units monitored by our correspondents indicate that chieftains of the two major political parties delivered at their units. The National Chairman of the ruling APC, Adams Oshiomhole, who reportedly delivered his polling unit where he cast his vote, said President Buhari and the APC would emerge victorious in the Presidential and National Assembly elections. Speaking shortly after casting his vote at Ward 10, Unit 1 at Iyamho in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, Oshiomhole expressed satisfaction with the peaceful conduct of the election, adding that simultaneous accreditation and voting as a single procedure showed that Nigeria’s democracy is growing. Oshiomhole said the old process of accreditation and then voting later slowed down the electoral process while noting that despite the postponement of the election, the turnout of voters was impressive, compared to previous election in the country. “With what I have seen so far, the APC will win and Nigerians will win. I am not a fortune teller and I am not here to campaign, but I have always said the thing about election is comparing one with the other,” he said. In the same vein, the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was said to have delivered his Polling Unit 047, Alausa, Ikeja Lagos for the party. On the other hand, former President Goodluck Jonathan, his wife, Patience, and his mother, Mrs Ayi, who reportedly delivered Otuoke Ward 13, in Ogbia Local Government area of Bayelsa State, where he cast his vote, described the exercise as satisfactory. Jonathan and his family arrived Unit 39, Otazi playground at about 9:30 am and were accredited and later voted. After voting, the former President expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the election. He noted that if any election is marred with violence, wrong leaders will be elected, hinting that such situation would never bring tangible development to that country. He urged any candidate that loses election to concede defeat, just like what always happened in other advanced countries in the world. In Ilorin, Kwara State, Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, delivered his polling unit where he expressed satisfaction with the massive turnout of voters in the state. Saraki who spoke with newsmen shortly after he cast his vote at Ode Opobiyi Polling Unit (005/006), in Ajikobi ward of Ilorin West Local Government commended the peaceful atmosphere witnessed in the exercise and urged residents to maintain such posture. Accompanied by his wife, Mrs Toyin, his mother, Florence and eldest son, Seni, the Senate president cast his vote at 10.20am. The Senate President, however, decried the late arrival of voting materials to some polling units within Ilorin metropolis and called on INEC to redress such anomalies in subsequent elections. Results from Governor Samuel Ortom’s Nzorov Council Ward showed that he delivered for his party at his Tse Kondom Polling Unit in Benue State even as it was a moment of joy for Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State when results of the Presidential and National Assembly elections in his polling unit were announced. The result indicated that the governor delivered his 024 Ungwan Sarki polling unit in Kaduna North Local Government Area where he earlier cast his vote. While Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar reportedly delivered his Makama Sarkin Baki 078 Polling unit for the APC, House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu  Dogara delivered for the PDP at his Gwarangah polling unit in Bogoro Local Government area where he hails from. In Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima yesterday delivered to the APC at his Alhaji Kukawa 023 polling unit in Lamisula ward of Maiduguri while his deputy, Usman Mamman Durkwa, delivered his own polling unit at Bakin Kasuwa, Shaffa town in Hawul Local Government Area. Drama of last-minute campaigns after INEC ‘reprieve’ Nigeria decides today #NigeriaDecides2019: Atiku beats Buhari at Presidential Villa polling centre