The President of Dangote Group of Companies, Aliko Dangote, has described Nasarawa state as one of the easiest states to do business in the country. He said this at the launching of two books in honour of Governor Umaru Al-Makura in Lafia via a video message. Dangote, who was represented by a Director of the company, Engr. Mansur Ahmed said: “It takes us about three to four year to complete agreement for the establishment and commencement of business in many states, but I was surprised with the flexibility of starting business in Nasarawa State as the process was concluded in just few weeks. “I was surprised as Governor Umaru Al-Makura was running the state as a business friendly institution and the people of Nasarawa state are receptive, because when we needed a land to establish a sugar plantation, we got the land and started Tunga Sugar Project and whenever the governor wants an explanation, he doesn’t shy away, he ask, we explain and come to understand each other very well. “Dangote Group is now in Nasarawa State and we were all well welcomed throughout the state. I wish the person coming after this governor to emulate him and even try to improve the state to greater height.” He added, “Here in Nasarawa state, the company is right on track and due to the possibilities we are envisioning, we will need more land to continue developing business, agriculture and the development on Nigeria to greater heights. We need more hectares apart from the 60,000 hectares we have, as we need more hectares of land to prosper.” In his speech, the governor of Nasarawa state, Umaru Al-Makura said, “I appreciate Dangote Group for making Nasarawa, Nigeria, Africa and the human beings proud. If there is any hope from the transformation of Nasarawa State, the only alternative is any institutionalization of the state towards economic development. “I realized it was an opportunity that should not be missed, and then facilitated with Dangote Group to establish Tunga Sugar Project with 60,000 hectares of land. “We have the potential to realize millions for the states. In the next few years, 30,000 workers will be employed and this is an opportunity to transform Nasarawa state.” Dangote disburses N130m to 13,000 women in Nasarawa Dangote sugar refinery: Tension in Tunga over demolition of houses Tension in Tunga as sugar company demolishes houses, economic trees