President Muhammadu Buhari  will today attend an emergency meeting of the National Caucus of the All Progrssives Congress(APC). At the meeting, Daily Trust gathered, critical issues affecting the party, including the postponement of the general elections by a week would be discussed. A notice of the meeting at the national headquarters’ of the APC reads,” A meeting of the APC National Caucus will hold on Monday at the Party’s National Secretariat.” President Buhari while reacting to the postponement of the elections Saturday said he was deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and preparations both locally and internationally, the INEC) still postponed the Presidential and National Assembly elections within hours of its commencement. “Many Nigerians have traveled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers are gathered. “INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections.  We and all our citizens believed them.” Also, the national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the main opposition PDP and many other political parties faulted the polls shift. The elections are now to hold on Saturday. The APC caucus which is a statutory organ of the party, is chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari and has the Vice President and all the party’s former governors as members. Its membership also includes the party’s serving governors, and members of its National Working Committee (NWC), among others. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu,had a few hours to commencement of the presidential and National Assembly elections announced the rescheduling of the exercises by one week. He stressed that postponing the elections was a difficult decision, but was necessary for successful delivery of the elections and to consolidate on Nigeria’s democracy.  Elections shift: APC national caucus meets tomorrow Why we postponed elections – INEC Convention: APC National Caucus meets  ahead of  tomorrow’s NEC