The YIAGA Africa Watching The Vote (WTV) Group has said it is deploying 3,906 observers throughout the country for Saturday’s Presidential election. The Chair, Watching The Vote Working Group, Dr. Hussaini Abdu, Co-Chair, Dr. Aisha Abdullahi and Executive Director, YIAGA AFRICA, Samson Itodo, said this Thursday in Abuja at a news conference. According to them, the organisation conducts comprehensive observation of elections and that in the pre-election period deployed 822 Long Term Observers (LTOs) in all 774 Local Government Areas (LGA) of Nigeria and are expecting over 500, 000 pieces of information from them. They said these citizen observers monitored political developments and preparations for the general elections over a four months period. “For the Presidential election, YIAGA AFRICA will deploy a total of 3,906 observers throughout the country. This comprises 3,076 stationary PVT observers deployed to a random representative statistical sample of 1,515 polling units and 23 voting points; 822 roving observers; and eight Working Group members who run real time election analysis. “YIAGA AFRICA will also deploy observers to the State Collation Centres in every state. Our observers will observe the entire Election Day process from setup of the polling units through the announcement and posting of the official results and will send in periodic reports to the Watching the Vote National Data Centre in Abuja where they will be processed and analyzed,” they said. Itodo said, this deployment will enable the organisation to provide the most timely and accurate information on the opening of polls; the conduct of accreditation and voting; and the counting, announcement and posting of results throughout the country. “Based on reports from its observers in the sampled polling units YIAGA Africa will also provide an independent projection of voter turnout and will be able to project the vote shares that each party should receive within a narrow range,” he said. He added that if the official results fall within YIAGA Africa’s estimated ranges, the public, political parties and candidates should have confidence in the ballots cast at the polling units. He however said only INEC has the legal mandate to announce the election results. Osun rerun: YIAGA Africa indicts APC in election reports YIAGA-AFRICA wants high level security for INEC officers, materials YIAGA to expose rigging