The National Democratic Front (NDF) has called on the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Police Force to caution the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus. The group said Secondus must be arrested for allegedly threatening war should his party lose the February 16 Presidential Election. NDF said the threat by the PDP National Chairman implies that he expects that his party must be announced the winner of the election even when it loses. Bolaji Abdukadir, Secretary-General of the group in a statement said such utterance was not justifiable under any circumstances in a country where there are laws. According to him, “It will however seem that the PDP with its officials and chieftains are resolute on doing everything to undermine the elections, degrade their credibility even before they are conducted and reject results that they are already projected to lose. They see shadows behind every wall and have become pathetically hysterical to the point of handing the country over to foreigners. “This hysteria on the part of the PDP and its mercenaries has put the entire country on edge with the constant sabre rattling over the election while creating the impression that it has to be a war situation of a do or die affair when the entire process is in reality about citizens exercising their right to decide who leads them” “Several groups with a few individuals and the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed had raised the alarm in the past that the PDP has perfected plans to cause widespread violence as part of a plot to force an interim government on the country because it knows it will lose the election. Secondus’ threat is the clearest confirmation yet that this plot is real and is now in its implementation stage. “NDF consequently calls on the DSS and the Nigerian Police Force to immediately arrest and question Secondus to explain what he meant by declaring war. It is our belief that this matter should not be treated with levity given the earlier revelation that the PDP has positioned terrorists, extremists, separatists and foreign mercenaries to unleash violence in different parts of the country. The group urged all political parties and their candidates to honour the peace pact they signed as part of ensuring violence free elections. Be mindful of your comments on President Buhari–BMO cautions Secondus 2019: APC cautions PDP national chairman, others on political language, conduct 2019: Secondus, Jibrin, meet Obasanjo over grand alliance