An investigation has been launched into the cause of a crash landing by a helicopter conveying Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to Kogi State yesterday. The chopper, belonging to the Nigerian Air Force, suffered a mishap while landing with the Vice President in Kabba. Osinbajo was visiting the community for a town hall meeting when the incident happened. A statement by Osinbajo’s media aide, Laolu Akande, said the Vice President and other passengers onboard escaped unhurt. The Vice President later addressed party supporters at the St. Augustine’s College, Kabba. The company managing the Augusta AW139 Helicopter, Caverton Helicopters, in a statement Saturday night, said an investigation had commenced into the crash. In the statement, signed by its managing director/accountable manager, Capt. Josiah CHOMS, Caverton Helicopters attributed the incident to “unusual weather conditions.” “There were no injuries to the passengers or crew onboard and they were all quickly and safely evacuated. “The relevant authorities have been duly informed and an investigation into the incident has commenced. We will, of course, support the authorities as required. “We wish to reassure the public and our various stakeholders of our unwavering commitment to safety in all of our operations,” it said. According to an eyewitness, the vice president’s helicopter managed to land at the township stadium before its propeller suddenly pulled off and was flying in the sky to the amazement of party faithful who had gathered to welcome him. Immediately after the incident, the vice president was evacuated from the scene into a waiting vehicle and was thereafter driven in a convoy to the palace of the Obaro of Kabba, where he paid a courtesy call. He later addressed some party supporters at the St Augustine’s College, Kabba. Osinbajo was billed to launch the Trader-Moni in Kabba and was equally expected to visit Okene, in the central axis of the state and Idah in the eastern part before returning to Abuja. Akande, the Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, said Osinbajo and the entire occupants of the chopper were all fine after the incident. “Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, arrived Kabba, Kogi State today (yesterday). His chopper crash landed, but everyone is safe. “Prof. Osinbajo is now in Kabba, after the incident and continuing his engagements in the state, engaging the people on the Next Level plan of the Buhari administration”, he said In the same vein, the Kogi State Government confirmed the incident in a statement yesterday, saying the VP was safe and continued his engagements thereafter. The All Progressives Congress (APC) gave gratitude to God for saving the lives of the Vice President and the crew. The party’s APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement prayed for the safety of all party leaders and progress of the country. “We thank God that our vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is safe and sound along with his aides. The party prays for continuous safety of our leaders and the general progress of our great country. Osinbajo carries on campaign despite helicopter crash land VP Osinbajo's helicopter crashlands in Kogi Gov Yakowa, Azazi  Die in Helicopter  Crash -  Jonathan Orders Probe