A universal fact is: You don’t feel at home, unless you are at home. So is the case with the Nigerian refugees in the neighbouring Niger Republic. These Nigerians have sojourned over the last four years in that neighbouring francophone country since Boko Haram insurgents began to banish them from their Northern Borno communities in 2014. Communities most banished there are from Abadam, Mobbar and Guzamala local government areas in Borno State, and from Gaidam and other Nigeria-Niger Republic border locations in Yobe State. There is an estimated 75,000 Nigerian refugees of Borno State origin in Niger Republic, apart from the estimated 50,000 who fled to the neighbouring Cameroon from Nigeria-Cameroon border communities in Bama, Gwoza, Kala-Balge, Gamboru-Ngala and Dikwa. Large populations of them have, reportedly, found homes in their respective francophone countries of sojourn, and are even prospering in their various livelihood businesses. However, as is the universal characteristic of a sojourner away from his or her native home, a large population of them living in Niger Republic remarkably prefer returning to Nigeria to, either rebuild their destroyed communities, in the case communities completely sacked by the insurgents, or resuscitate their lives in their respective native homes. As the saying goes: home is where the heart is. These ‘’home-preferring’’ Nigerian refugees in Niger Republic say their hearts are still in their natives homes in Nigeria, however sweet the solace many of them may be savouring out of there. Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State told newsmen after casting his vote at the presidential and National Assembly elections last Saturday that the estimated 75,000 and 50,000 Nigerian refugees of Borno State origin in Niger Republic and Cameroon respectively had been transported home to exercise their franchise as Nigerians. He said the voting refugees had already been offered the choice of remaining at home after the elections, “whoever so wishes.” International law enshrines that a refugee is, and should be, under no compulsion, to return to his home country from his country of refuge. It is possible, therefore, sources argue, these 75,000 and 50,000 refugees would all be so excited as to agree to be shipped home for the elections. Reliable sources, therefore, cast doubts over the possibility of these whole lots completely bussed home for the elections; but prevailing evidences show that their larger populations, who may have ‘agreed’ to be bussed home for the exercise, voted in the last Saturday elections. While the refugees from Cameroon are said to have been thronged for the elections at Gamboru, their counterparts from Niger Republic have been settled at Muhammadu Goni College of Legal and Islamic Studies (MOGOLIS), Government College and Yerwa Government Girls Secondary School, all in Maiduguri metropolis, for the purpose. Many of them spoke to Kanem Trust, after casting their votes at MOGOLIS, Maiduguri, last Saturday, expressing their wish to return home to Nigeria and rebuild their communities and livelihoods, maintaining that no place of sojourn is like home. “Whenever I wake up to the reality that I am not in my country where my native home is, but in a country where it has not been possible for me to build and feel at home over the last four years, I experience the coldness of grief and nostalgia running down my entire trump,” Modu Lawan, who was lucky to flee with his entire family to Niger Republic from a sacked community near Malam-Fatori, Abadam Local Government Area, told Kanem Trust. “My entire family is savouring some peace, but livelihood has been very tough there; my kinsmen here often have to dispatch some provisions to us through Gaidam (Yobe State),” he said. “However you force yourself to feel at home in your country of sojourn, there is a limit to which you can go in your feeling of being at home, because you are away from your native home, where your heart is. “The feeling that you are a refugee in another country is enough stigma to tell you the stark reality that, however your country of sojourn tries to make you feel at home, you have limits in terms of how you intend to prosper, unless you nationalise there, which is a different case, because you will no more be a refugee,” Modu maintained. “Since I fled with my four children to Niger Republic when the boys (Boko Haram insurgents) attacked Malam-Fatori, I have not set my eyes on my husband (Hassan),” Falmata said, recalling, “I have been told he is still with soldiers at the barracks, but he has not been released yet. “It is even tougher and more humiliating for me as a female refugee; even if no one maltreats you, the limits to which you can live your life are stricter and more than those of the male refugee, especially when faced withe stark reality that you have to fend for yourself and the children in an economic setting you are not used to. “Majority of us you are seeing prefer returning home to rebuild our communities and livelihoods whatever the initial hardships we may arrive into; home is home; you feel at home when you are in your native home where you will be convinced that you are no more a refugee,” she said. Governor Shettima has offered them the choice of remaining at home, “whoever wishes to”; they have thrown the challenge at Nigeria: “Assure us of sufficient security, and you will us returning home in throngs, because refugee status is a stigma.” NEMA says 239,834 Nigerians taking refuge in neighbouring countries Search for refugees:  Borno  dep gov tours Niger, Cameroon *6,420 crossed to Niger from Borno Boko Haram: The pathetic story of returnees from Cameroon