President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday received his certificate of return as winner of the 2019 presidential election, promising that his government will remain inclusive. But the runner-up in the polls Atiku Abubakar rejected the outcome of the election and vowed to challenge it in court. The chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Professor Mahmood Yakubu issued the return certificates to Buhari alongside his running mate Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. Yakubu had earlier declared the president winner at the same venues. The president and his vice who arrived at the ICC in company of their wives at about 2:10pm received their certificates at about 2:20pm amidst cheers at the event attended by some state governors, ministers, government officials and APC stalwarts led by its National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole. Mr Osinbajo was the first to receive his certificate from Mr Yakubu followed by Mr Buhari. The INEC chairman said Electoral Act requires that winners of elections to be given their certificate of return within seven days. Elections free and fair – Buhari Speaking after receiving his certificate, President Buhari said “From the comments of several observers both local and foreign, it is obvious that the elections were both free and fair.” He said “now that the elections are over, and a winner declared, we must all see it as a victory for Nigeria, our dear country. That was why I encouraged my teeming supporters, in a speech I read earlier today, not to gloat. Our God-given victory is enough cause for joy, without deriding those who were in the opposition. All Nigerians, going forward, must stand in brotherhood, for a bright and fulfilling future. “I, therefore, want to assure that we will continue to engage all parties that have the best interest of Nigerians at heart. Our Government will remain inclusive and our doors will remain open. That is the way to build the country of our dream; safe, secure, prosperous, and free of impunity and primitive accumulation by those entrusted with public offices.” The president, who said the hard work to deliver a better Nigeria continues, added that “We have no other motive than to serve Nigeria with our hearts and might, and build a nation which we and generations to come can be proud of. “I am very grateful to the over 15 million citizens who voted for me, those who contributed in many ways in the running of our successful campaign, and those at home and abroad who expressed confidence in me and the APC Government. I thank you all. “I can assure that you will see a country moving to the Next Level, as we consolidate on our fundamental areas of securing the country, reviving the economy, and fighting corruption. Many other focal areas, as stated in our campaign manual, will be added, to the good things we plan for our country.” While paying tribute to those who lost their lives either through accidents or violence during the course of the elections, President Buhari said his heart and thoughts are with the families of the victims and prayed that God comforts and give them the fortitude to bear the loss. He said, “Election is not war, and should never be seen as a do or die affair. I pray that we all accept this democratic approach to elections, however contentious.” Earlier at the APC campaign office, Buhari said “We will strive to strengthen our unity and inclusiveness so that no section or group will feel left behind or left out.” He also thanked Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Adams Oshiomhole and Rotimi Amaechi and the millions of Nigerians who voted for his reelection as president for the next four years. I’ll reclaim my stolen mandate – Atiku Meanwhile, the former vice president has described the outcome of presidential election as a “grand theft of the people’s will,” and vowed that he would reclaim his “stolen mandate.” Addressing a world press conference yesterday in Abuja, Atiku, who had earlier issued a statement that he would challenge the result of the election in court, said the outcome of the election, which gave victory to President Buhari, did not reflect the will of the people and can’t be allowed to stand. The former vice president said if he had lost in a free and fair election, he would have called Buhari to congratulate him and contribute his quota to ensure the unity and progress of the nation as a bridge between the North and the South. “With regards to the presidential elections that took place on February 23, 2019, there were manifest and premeditated malpractices in many states which negate the results announced. “One obvious red flag is the statistical impossibility of states ravaged by the war on terror generating much higher voter turnouts than peaceful states. The suppressed votes in my strongholds are so apparent and amateurish, that I am ashamed as a Nigerian that such could be allowed to happen. “How can total votes in Akwa-Ibom, for instance, be 50% less than what they were in 2015? “Another glaring anomaly is the disruption of voting in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers and diverse other states, with the authorities doing little or nothing and, in some cases, facilitating these unfortunate situations. “The militarization of the electoral process is a disservice to our democracy and a throwback to the jackboot era of military dictatorship. In some areas of the country, such as, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Imo states, troops deployed for the elections turned their guns on the very citizens they were meant to protect. This is condemnable and should not be associated with our electoral process in the future. “Consequently, I hereby reject the result of the February 23, 2019 sham election and will be challenging it in court. I want to assure my supporters and the entire Nigerian people that together, we will not allow democracy to be emasculated,” he said. Results reflect peoples’ will – INEC However, reacting to Atiku’s comments, INEC said presidential elections were free, fair and credible. The Chief Press Secretary to INEC Chairman, Mr. Rotimi Lawrence Oyekanmi, told Daily Trust yesterday in Abuja that the former vice president is a respectable Nigerian and accomplished businessman who is entitled to his views. “But in the estimation of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the 2019 Presidential Election was free, fair and credible. It is true that there were challenges in some areas which are not unexpected when an election of this magnitude is conducted in a vast territory with huge population like Nigeria. Some of the challenges we faced were as a result of hostile behaviour in certain communities. “As a result, we lost one of our ad-Hoc staff who was hit by a bullet in Rivers State. Some others were also injured. But the elections went well in several states with minimum challenges. Besides, the outcome in various states clearly showed that the will of the Nigerian people was what the commission released as results,” Oyekanmi said. Daily Trust reports that the results released by the electoral body showed that Buhari scored 15, 191,847 votes to defeat Atiku, who polled 11,262,978 votes in the election which had 71 other presidential candidates. 2019 Presidential Poll: INEC declares APC's Buhari winner INEC presents 'Certificate of Return' to Buhari Osinbajo cuts ‘Next Level Cake’