The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Yobe state, Hon Mai Mala Buni, has promised to consolidate on the achievements of Governor Ibrahim Gaidam and assured the youths of political appointments and empowerment opportunities. The governorship candidate gave the assurance during a state-wide campaign rally in Nguru, Fune, Jakusko, Potiskum and Bursari local government areas in the state. He said, if elected, he would copy and domesticate the federal government social empowerment programmes to tackle poverty and unemployment through agriculture and entrepreneurship. He explained that the agricultural scheme put in place by President Muhammadu Buhari has boosted the country’s agricultural potential within a period of three years. “The success of President Buhari’s interventions like the anchor borrower scheme would be replicated in our agrarian state to empower the people and expand their farming activities; this will not only increase their income but reduced poverty,” he said. He noted that the state has enough potentials to improve the country’s capacity on food production and build on Governor Gaidam’s initiative of engaging 50,000 youths on irrigation farming. He promised to consolidate on the achievements of the present administration in Yobe in the area of roads construction, health, education, and water supply among others. Responding to appeals on him to consider those that contributed to the party’s success for appointments, Mai Mala assured that only committed members that served the party diligently would be considered. He assured that roads would be constructed to expand the areas covered by Gaidam’s administration for sustainability and good governance in the state. Speaking earlier, his running mate, Idi Barde Gubana, who hails from the area assured of getting block votes for the party. He said the improved security recorded in Yobe had convinced the remaining members of the PDP to shift loyalty to the APC. The Director General of APC campaign organisation in the state, Hon Lawan Shettima Ali, appreciated the mammoth crowd of party supporters that graced the event and assured them of continuity in projects and other democratic gains. He urged the electorates to vote APC candidates from top to bottom and be accommodative at every step of the electioneering processes. Yobe: Gaidam asks campaign c’ttee to deliver all positions Former PDP chairman, others decamp to APC in Yobe Buhari’s campaign train arrives Damaturu amidst jubilation