Huzaifa Yakubu Musa is the Chief Executive Officer at Kirkira Hub, an ICT skills development centre. The young entrepreneur in his late twenties from Katsina state studied Computer Science at the Al Qalam University in Katsina. He also graduated with a Master’s degree in ICT from Bayero University, Kano in 2018. He spoke of how his craze for clothes and gadgets led him into the computer world. How did you come up with such innovation? As a fresh graduate of computer science, I started working with CITAD, an NGO based in Kano, where I learned how to develop community and give back to society even if you don’t have much to offer. I started thinking on how to create an ICT and Tech ecosystem in North especially my state, Katsina. That was when I did my little research and learn about how Cchub contributed in creating the Lagos Tech Ecosystem. I created a team. We had our first Developers Hangout at Muhammad Dikko Stadium where we had over 70 ICT professionals in attendance. This amazing team helped a lot in making this dream a reality. What role do the youth play in the hub, do they get paid? Kirkira Innovation Hub has always been a home for Tech entrepreneurs, ICT professionals, Young Entrepreneurs and Creatives in Katsina. Our youth collaborate and co-create at the hub, they attend tech and entrepreneurship meet ups, events and trainings that we organize and host at the hub time to time where they are mentored by successful Entrepreneurs and Tech professionals especially those from Katsina State (likes of Nasir Yammama of Verdant, Hashir Aminu of CISCO, Kabir Ibrahim Kebram among others). We recently formed a Painting Club after our painting class with an artist Saulawa Arts, where they meet to challenge each other. About getting paid, of course they get paid if we pair them with a client or engage them in our personal projects that we collect payment for. How did you come up with the name ‘Kirkira’? You know “Kirkira” is a Hausa word which can be translated as “Innovation”, I am a proud Hausa Fulani, though I am more proud of being a Nigerian and I like using Hausa words all the time. Secondly, I want our youth to be free and take Kirkira Hub as theirs, which is why I chose the name Kirkira Innovation Hub. What extraordinary thing have you done so far? Hmmm! That’s a tough one, I think creating Kirkira is the extraordinary thing that I have done so far because when I started it a lot of people became skeptical, some even say it to my face, some emphasized that I was just wasting my time and I should just get a job and sustain a family. It was challenging doing something that even the people you are doing it for are not appreciating or understanding what you are doing, but Alhamdulillah we never backed down. What are the financial implications for the hub? Some organizations and individuals also sponsor some of our training, like our just concluded CCNA class which was sponsored by Kabir Ibrahim Kebram and Idris Aminu, we collaborated and trained over 40 people on CISCO CERTIFIED NETWORK ASSOCIATE certificate training, after the training we picked 2 best students and pay for their exams which is about $400 each, which motivated a lot of them to also pay and write their vendor examinations. Where do you see your business in the next five years? Insha Allah, in five years, we would produce some of the most successful startups in the whole country which would solve a lot of our community problems and even global problems. Currently, we are working on bringing a number of solutions before ending of this year Insha Allah. How we’ll reduce extortion of students -Ekiti varsity VC Page 49 Inside the first Islamic university in Nigeria