Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has appealed to candidates, political parties and politicians to imbibe the culture of sportsmanship to accept defeat after the declaration of winners of the last Saturdays election. The chairman, IPAC in Yobe State, Alhaji Umar Kukuri, made the appeal in a statement issued yesterday in Damaturu. “I want to specifically call on all candidates and their supporters to imbibe the culture of sportsmanship. We cannot all be winners in elections. There must be winners and losers to elections. I urged us all to be civil and respect the laws governing our country. “You may wish to recall that prior to the election, the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) met on several occasions with other stakeholders. We collectively took decisions aimed at promoting peaceful campaigns and elections. We are proud to say that our decisions have contributed immensely to the success of the last election. “As we await the official announcement of the election results, we should either accept the results in good faith or seek redress in competent courts of law. We must control our supporters and warn them against taking laws into their hands to cause mayhem. “Our state has already suffered so much, we cannot afford to accommodate more crisis. As leaders, we should promote peaceful coexistence, respect for each other and remain law abiding. “As we prepare for the second leg for the governorship and state assembly elections, l wish to call on all of us to respect the provisions of the electoral act, remain peaceful and play good politics. “I also wish to call on our supporters to turn out en mass to exercise their civic duties and elect leaders of their choice, leaders who will bring development and improve our qualities of lives” he said. He congratulated all political parties, candidates and their supporters in Yobe state for  the peaceful and successful presidential and National Assembly elections across the state, while wishing them another peaceful and successful round of elections in Yobe state and Nigeria.  Kogi: Opposition leaders differ on INEC’s decision Opposition party leaders differ on INEC''s decision on Kogi IPAC: Why INEC should be neutral –Ameh