The National Chairman of Sustainable National Party (SNP), Kayode Michael Arimoro, has called for optical mark reading machines to replace the smart card readers (SCRs) adopted for the 2019 General Elections. Arimoro told newsmen Thursday in Abuja while reacting to last Saturday’s election result released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), that the card readers are overrated in terms of efficiency and transparency. According to him, Nigeria should focus on a process that explores the concept of optical mark reading machines which will reject multiple entries of any thump print, in future elections. “This will produce results in a short time and print it out for all agents at the polling units. This will not only ensure that votes are not manipulated, it will also guarantee quick and timely collation of results. “With the process of election that produced President Buhari as winner, there is need for a more transparent process that will make election results credible and generally acceptable,” Arimoro said. While commending the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for remaining calm and choosing civil path in expressing his grievances, he reminded President Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerians anxiously expect an improved economy. He said, “Let us all expect that things get better in the country as we know that the President now needs no further favours from all those who have been holding him ransom. I congratulate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for choosing the path of peace for the sake of the unity of our country.” He also frowned at electoral process that is capital intensive and money induced, saying that over 4,000 Nigerians voted for SNP unconditionally and without any form of monetary inducement. He urged a system that allows emerging parties participate favourably and competitively with the main stream political parties in the interest of deepening democracy and good governance. 2019: SNP urges Nigerians  to seek alternative party TMG, NDI root for e-voting, back card reader for April 11 poll How Jega foiled senators’ move against use of card readers