The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano state has condemned the onslaught meted out on innocent residents of Kano metropolis allegedly by elements of Kwankwasiyya group during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential rally in state. The PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar had held his presidential rally at Sani Abacha Stadium, Kofar Mata, Kano yesterday. A statement signed by the state Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba said that members of Kwankwasiyya apparently disturbed by the dislodgement of their leader, Rabi’u Kwankwaso in Kano’s political scene, begun to lose hope in the upcoming 2019 general elections, and therefore, had adopted the manner of violence to vent their anger over the success of the APC at all level. The commissioner pointed out that while the APC government had given a level playing ground for the opposition and irrevocably committed to peaceful electioneering campaign, “it is really unfortunate that the group do not want the peaceful political atmosphere that has been entrenched by the present government in the state.” “We observe with concern the use of violence by the disenchanted group, particularly now that elections at various levels are just around the corner.  This is deliberate plot by Kwankwasiyya group to instil fear in the minds of residents to discourage them from exercising their franchise”, Garba added. Malam Garba said that the recent unguarded utterances by the leadership of the group was driving the thugs within its rank to instil fear on residents in some parts of the metropolis by smashing vehicles, assaulting and grabbing mobile phones from unsuspecting members of the public. The commissioner also said the APC was sickened that there seems to be a deliberate attempt by the opposition group, having get a vestige of defeat at the polls, to resort to the use of thuggery as part of a calculated attempt to scuttle the peaceful and orderly 2019 elections. “Since the start of their rallies in the state capital, the Kwankwasiyya members have been freely attacking residents, including going to residents of key figures of the APC to unleash terror. If left unchecked, the trend may mar the chance of having a violence-free election. “It is really unfortunate that the group has resorted to violence. They do not want the peaceful political atmosphere that has been entrenched by the present government in Kano state, because we allow the opposition to thrive, and we don’t go against anybody. Our campaigns are based on issues,’’ the statement continues.” The commissioner urged security agents to be alive to their responsibilities by ensuring that perpetrators are brought to book to serve as deterrent to others, particularly considering that peace accord has been signed by all party’s candidates in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. APC, PDP trade words over destruction of posters, banners in Kano Over 10,000 Kwankwasiyya supporters defect to APC, burnt red caps Fierce contest for PDP as it tests APC dominance in Kano