The Internet Industry code of practice whose objective is to sanitise the cyberspace against fraud for telecom consumers is coming this year, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said. The NCC disclosed this yesterday during an enlightenment against cybercrime campaign in Mokwa Local Government Area of Niger State. At the programme entitled: ‘‘Mitigating Effects of Cybercrimes: The Role of Telecom Consumers”, the Commission enlightened the consumers on the threats of cybercrime, it various forms and measures required of to be protected from cybercriminals and hackers. The Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Mrs. Felicia Onwuegbuchulam, said as broadband penetration gets deeper for the promotion of positive engagements and efficient economic activities, the tendency for some Internet users to use such access for criminal and illegal activities is also on the rise, thereby requiring adequate consumer education. Represented by the Head, Government & Legislative Unit of Public Affairs Department, Alh. Bashir Idris, she said, “It is a common knowledge that the use of Internet has become part of telecom consumer’s daily activities whether at home, in the workplace or any social settings.” “Hence, the Commission is committed to using its various outreach programmes to embark on series of awareness campaigns with a view to keeping consumers well informed on the risks associated with being online,” she added. In his welcome address, Head, Information & Reference Unit, Consumer Affairs Bureau at NCC, Alh. Ismail Adedigba, said the Commission was in the process of establishing an Internet Industry Code of Practice, whose object is to come up with robust framework to sanitise the cyber space for telecom consumers. Representative of a consumer advocacy group, Wheel of Hope, Mr. Jibe Abdul-Aziz in his lead paper, said the safety measures needed to be taken by the consumers include outright deleting of suspicious scam emails or text messages, using strong passwords, using trusted software, reporting cases of lost Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card to service providers and banks, among others. Representatives of telecoms operators also took time to enlighten their consumers on efforts being made by them and role expected of the consumers to play to be safe when online on their various networks. NCC: We will continue to educate telecom consumers on their rights Don't buy preregistered SIM cards, NCC warns Nigerians NCC engage telecom consumers in Ogun rural community