Two persons have been apprehended with explosives at Idemba bridge in Ezza South local government area of Ebonyi state. The duo, identified as Nweke Kingsley and Chijoke Uwakwe, were arrested for intending to blow up the six span bridge in the area. The bridge was among the 42 bridges built by the immediate past governor of the state, Chief Martin Elechi. The state governor, Engr. David Umahi disclosed this in Abakaliki on Friday while briefing journalists over security situations ahead of the elections in the state. Umahi explained that the suspects were caught by members of the state vigilante group but were later handed over to the state police command in Abakaliki. “The report came to me as the Chief Security Officer of the state that a House of Assembly candidate in one of the political parties went to the quarry to buy explosives and the people came and reported to us and I said that the person should be declare wanted. “Subsequently, in four hours later, we get another information that a meeting was held and it was agreed to plant explosives in hotels, flyovers and bridges. “Soon, a community through the help of state neighbourhood watch apprehended two people with intent to blow up the bridge at ldemba which was built by Governor Martin Elechi. “They were still planting the explosives at the bridge when they were arrested. So, they have been apprehended and are currently in the police net. Umahi noted that he has directed the police to arrest two candidates of House of Representatives reported to be in possession of illegal arms. He also explained that two suspects have been arrested in Ikwo local government area of the state for terrorising the community. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of Ebonyi state Police Command, Abakaliki,  ASP Loveth Odah, confirmed that two suspects found with explosives  were in custody of the command. ASP Odah added that the command has began investigation to ascertain the reason behind their actions. A journalist’s account of a political dispensation FG committed to resolving Ebonyi-Cross River boundary crisis 30 persons feared dead in Ikwo/Izzi renewed clash