The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has unveiled a €2.4 million (about N982m) Integrated Commercial Management Systems (InCMS) automated platform to improve customer service experience and reduce its losses. The Managing Director of AEDC, Engr. Ernest Mupwaya, after the system was commission in Abuja, said, “The cost of this is roughly two million Euros, but I think even if it sounds expensive, the value which will be derived from is much more than that.” He also said with the system, the company could now check power theft as various customer-related activities could now be remotely monitored. “It is an intelligent system which you can use to do energy balance. You would have known at a transformer level how much energy came out and how much was sold to the customers and where the gap is coming from,” Mupwaya noted. Describing it further, he said, “It will provide visibility in all customer activities that we can enforce compliance in terms of meeting targets, the quality of work and that the processes are respected. For customers, it will help to ensure that their complaints are resolved in a shorter time.” The Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Prof. James Momoh, who commissioned the automated system, said, “We as regulators are happy to see that one of us is already leading the pack, and I am sure that the other 10 DisCos will join to make sure an automated system is available. “It will be able to provide information in terms of metering problems, excess charges and provide solutions to why there is no power so that they can provide quick fixes,” Prof. Momoh noted. The Strategic and Technical Advisor to the MD/CEO of AEDC, Dr. George Nguni, in a presentation about the system, said the system was in use since December, 2018, for a pilot operation before it was deployed across the entire franchise area comprising Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger states on February 6, 2019. Dr. Nguni, who is also the Project Manager of INCMS, said 47 AEDC staff were trained and were retraining other staff across the business units. AEDC deploys 12,000 transformer meters to check estimated bill, monitor networks We’re open to partnerships, AEDC tells power engineers Abuja DisCo meters 88,000 customers, targets 120,000 by Dec