The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State, Mr. Daniel Nwafor, has warned the state Resident Electoral Commissioner, REC, Prof. Francis Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, not to subvert his position as the duly and legally elected chairman of Imo APC. The development came as the National Chairman of the Party, Adams Oshiomhole, will appear before a Federal High Court on Monday to answer charges of contempt of court leveled against him. Nwafor accused the REC of acting contrary to the existing court order regarding the legally recognized and authentic leadership of the party in the state by recognising the Oshiomhole-inaugurated caretaker committee. In an interview with our correspondent on Sunday, Nwafor warned that Imo APC under his watch will be compelled to invoke legal action against Ezeonu if he does not desist from undermining his position and by extension, the court directive. The REC had allowed the party agent sent by Nlemigbo to stand in for the party along Nwafor’s agent during the distribution of election sensitive materials last Friday in preparatory to the botched Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly election , which Nwafor viewed as a clear disobedience to the court order. Meanwhile Oshiomhole, is expected to appear in the Federal High Court, Abuja on Monday to answer charges of contempt of court leveled against him. The suit, which was filed by Nwafor, as the claimant, is seeking an order of court to send Oshiomhole to prison for disobeying its order, which restrained him from tempering with the tenure of the elected executives of the party in Imo State, which he is leading. The court had on August 14, 2018 ordered the national chairman not to interfere with the tenure of the Nwafor-led executives of the party in the state. But Nwafor had averred in the suit that Oshiomhole had violated the order of the court by inaugurating a parallel executive led by Marcellinus Nlemigbo. The suit is seeking among other things “an order committing Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress ( APC), and the 2nd Defendant to Prison for disobeying the Order of this Honourable Court made on the 14th Day of August 2018. And for such Order(s) that the Honourable Court may deem fit to make in the circumstances”. Imo APC initiates contempt proceedings against Oshiomhole Imo APC gets parallel exco Excos kick as Oshiomhole dissolves Imo, Ogun APC leaderships