The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, has applauded the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) for the effective and result-oriented collaboration with PZ Cussons, one of the multinational companies operating in Nigeria. Dr. Onu made this commendation while commissioning a multi-million naira chemical engineering laboratory at the Alex Ekweme Federal University, Ndufu Alike Ikwe (AE-FUNAI) in Ebonyi State. The facility was equipped through collaboration between NOTAP and PZ to upgrade the laboratories of selected knowledge institutions across the six geopolitical zones to ensure rapid development of skilled manpower in the country. He said science industry must work closely with the university because universities were the home of research, and that when there was synergy, researches carried out in the universities would be such that they would solve the problems of the industry, and added that with this kind of collaboration, commercialisation of research findings might not be a problem because the industry would be ready, willing and committed to ensuring that such results were made available in the market as products. The minister said Nigeria could not become a truly great nation if it depended on other nations to meet its demands. He cited Japan, China and India as nations that should be emulated as they had taken their citizens out of poverty through research and innovation. He, however, decried the use of alternative to practical in teaching students in Nigerian institutions, stressing that students could not be skilled enough when they were not taken through the practical aspect of their courses of study, adding that Nigerian knowledge institutions should fully embrace practical aspects to ensure that students graduated with technical skills that could dovetail into improved techno-economic growth of the country. The Director General of NOTAP, Dr. DanAzumi Mohammed Ibrahim, thanked the minister for always making himself available for commissioning of projects by NOTAP, especially upgraded laboratories in Nigerian knowledge institutions such as the one donated by PZ. Dr. Ibrahim recalled that in carrying out the registration of technology transfer agreement, which was the primary function of NOTAP, it was discovered that over 90 per cent of the technology powering the Nigerian economy were foreign, and that for a country that was striving to develop and become one of the highest economies in the world, the situation was unacceptable. PPP will fast-track STI in Nigeria - Minister FG to close all technology gaps in Nigeria, says Onu Minister challenges agencies on saleable research