A housewife, Mrs Olaitan Olanrewaju, has pleaded with a Grade A customary court, Oke-Eda, Akure, the Ondo state capital, to intervene and help her recover her panties and pictures she alleged were stolen by the children of her husband’s second wife. The plaintiff, who is Olaitan’s husband, Mr Omolayo Olanrewaju, had dragged his wife before the court seeking the dissolution of the marriage on grounds of adultery and assault. Olanrewaju told the court that his 40-year-old wife was an adulterer who wanted to kill him, and urged the court to dissolve the marriage. According to him, his wife had no respect for him, as she also hated his family members. He added she was always fighting with neighbours. But Olaitan denied all the allegations, describing them as total lies when the court president, Chief Rotimi Olusanya, asked her to explain what happened. She said Olanrewaju did not care for their three children and she had been the one responsible for the payment of the children’s school fees. She further told the court that the children lacked simple needs like school bags, shoes and clothes due to sheer neglect by their father. “Their father will only give them N50 to school every day. My husband doesn’t care about the welfare of his family. Another woman has two children for him and he put them in a good school,” she said. Olaitan told the court that one of the children from her husband’s other wife took one of her panties and pictures and has not returned them. “Please help me so that the child can bring back my panties and pictures,” she pleaded with the court. She also pleaded that the court grant her custody of the children of the union, as well as ownership of a land receipt in possession of her husband as it was the name of her first child that was written on it. Chief Olusanya adjourned the matter till February 26, 2019. I may  poison my husband, divorce-seeking wife tells court My husband uses sex-enhancer on me, wife tells court Court dissolves 12-year-old marriage over husband’s infidelity