The outcome of the presidential election in Sokoto will be determined by many factors considering recent developments.  First, the level of popularity of the two main contestants including President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP. Secondly, the level of popularity of local leaders of the two main political parties is also seen as a determinant of how the two parties would fare in the presidential election. Similarly, the success of some programmes of the federal government in the state as well as the security issue in parts of the state might likely be used in the presidential election. As the candidate of the defunct All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) in 2003 when he contested against the then candidate of the ruling PDP, Olusegun Obasanjo, Buhari polled 681,153 votes while Obasanjo got 232,258 in Sokoto. Similarly, Buhari won the state in 2007 and 2011 when he contested on the platforms of the defunct ANPP and the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) respectively, after defeating late Umaru Musa Yar’adua and Goodluck Ebele Jonathan who were fielded by the then ruling PDP. For the 2011 presidential poll, Buhari scored 540,769 votes while Jonathan got 309,057 votes in the state. This happened when the state was under the control of the PDP. In 2015 when he contested against President Jonathan, Buhari who ran for the presidency under the platform of the APC  got 671,926 while his opponent got 309,059 votes in Sokoto. In the forthcoming election, Buhari is contesting against a fellow northerner who is being supported by the ruling party, the PDP in the state. The question now is whether Buhari’s popularity will override that of the candidate of the ruling party in the state. While the PDP boasts of having incumbent Governor Aminu Tambuwal who is the Campaign Coordinator of the PDP in Northwest, the APC has the immediate past Sokoto State governor, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, as the Northwest Coordinator of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. “Tambuwal as a master political strategist who came second in the presidential primaries of the PDP will defeat APC hands down and deliver the entire Northwest to PDP because of massive support,” said one of the governor’s aides, Akibu Dalhatu. But Senator Wamakko who is a grassroots politician has repeatedly underscored the popularity of Buhari in the state, describing Sokoto as an “APC state.” According to Wamakko, there is tremendous show of sustainable love and support for APC by the generality of people of the state. During the presidential campaigns of the both parties in the state, huge crowds were recorded. However, while the December 3,2018 gathering in Sokoto in honour of Atiku was a zonal rally comprising seven states of Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Jigawa and Kaduna, Buhari’s January 23, campaign rally was for Sokoto alone. The National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, at the flag-off campaign, asserted that the crowd at the rally was a clear indication that the PDP is winning the general elections. But the mammoth crowd at the APC presidential campaign in Sokoto State overwhelmed President Buhari who was so astounded that he  reassured Nigerians that he would never betray them if re-elected. Some people in the state lauded Buhari’s effort in areas such as the agriculture sector which was perhaps why members of the Rice Farmers Association lined up along the road to the venue of the campaign to express their support for his re-election bid. A dry season farmer, Musa Kwalkwalawa, told Daily Trust that famers had no reason whatsoever not to vote for President Buhari because they never had it so good before now. But the issue of insecurity has remained a source of concern to many who think they need someone who would deploy new methods to curb the menace of banditry and kidnapping. There are murmurings in Sokoto over lack of federal presence in the state, an allegation which Governor Tambuwal made in his speech during his official defection from APC to PDP in August last year. APC’s many presidential ‘candidates’ Kwankwaso, Shekarau fight for Kano guber seat through proxies Mark, Bankole, Yarima, Goje, Saraki, Sheriff: Will they make it today?