The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus insisted that the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC must disqualify the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC President Muhammadu Buhari in 16 February polls. He predicated his argument on President Buhari’s campaign rally in Kano yesterday (Thursday) which he described as the worse political outing since the history of the nation. Secondus, alleged that the mammoth crowd as witnessed at the Sani Abacha township stadium, venue of Thursday’s APC presidential rally were not Nigerians but invited foreigners from neighbouring counties like Niger and Chad. Speaking during the Presidential campaign rally of his party at Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki, Secondus cited that those foreign mercenaries were top government functionaries like governors and presidents of the two neighbouring counties, among the fake the crowd that attended the event. “Now on behalf of our great party, let me warn INEC, that what we witnessed yesterday at Buhari’s rally in Kano is the worse that even happened since the history of this country where mecenaries and government officers like governors and President of other countries came in their numbers from Niger Republic and Chad. “They came with monies and mecenaries to influence elections in Nigeria. All the papers have reported it. “Now we ask, INEC, the unbiased umpire to disqualify Buhari for bringing mecenaries to influence elections in Nigeria. “INEC better be warned, you cannot rig this elections, we have won these elections, every where we have been, we have attracted more youth and women than APC. Alhaji Atiku on his side, appealed to people of the state not only to vote for him come 16 February polls but other PDP candidates. He pointed out that his administration if emerge victorious will not maginalize the state not south east which he said has already secured 2 vital positions He commended Governor Umahi for his achievements, commitment in the course of the Party and well reminded PDP faithfuls to defend their votes at the poll. Our correspondent who went round the Abakiliki metropolis observed that market plalces were under lock and key so as to honour the rally. The directive was from the state government, Daily Trust learnt. 2019 campaigns: Story behind ‘mammoth’ crowds Cabal, not Buhari now in charge of affairs — Secondus Buhari failed to deliver his mandate – Atiku