The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has said the Federal government will soon begin an entrepreneurs bank that would give loans to young men and women. Speaking Friday in Nsit Atai local government area during a special campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress party, the Vice President said the bank would operate in the mold of N-Power, where loans with little interest rate will be given to youths to begin small scale businesses. He stated that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari would provide quality jobs for the youths, urging them to vote the APC for the promise to be realisable. He said the government has fulfilled its promises to the people and provided jobs for 500,000 youths through the N-Power programme, and have been feeding 9.2million children across the country with the school feeding programme. He called on the people of the state to vote in the APC so as not to be in the opposition party, adding that the APC is taking the country to the next level. “We have found here palm oil which will be a replacement of crude oil, so we are going to be number one in this local government. That is one of the reasons that you must join the Federal government under the APC. “Akwa Ibom should not be in opposition, no reason. There is every reason for you to join so that you become part of the next level. All of the young people who are here, the government of President Buhari is determined to make sure that not only do you have jobs, you have quality jobs. That is one of the most important things we are doing. That is why you must support APC. “N-Power is only the beginning, we are starting something called the entrepreneur bank. That bank is for giving loans to men and women like this in N-Power who have a plan for the future. The loans will be given to them at very little interest rate so that they can start their own businesses, and so that they can make progress. “When we said in 2015 that we will start N-Power, they said it is impossible, how can you employ 500,000 people but we have done it. When said we are going to do home grown school feeding, today we are feeding 9.2million children all over Nigeria. They say it is impossible but home grown school feeding is here. Home grown school feeding used 6.8million eggs in one week, and we are expanding it. “If you are a young man or woman here and you vote for PDP, know that you are living in the past, every young man or woman must go to the next level. If you have voted PDP in the past, apologize and say we are going to the next level, I cannot remain on the same level. The next level is where it is happening. Everything we said we will do, we have already done and we will do more,” he said. Osinbajo launches Tradermoni in Ekiti, urges rejection of treasury looters at poll Bagudu's wife begins door to door campaign in Kebbi FG earmarks N146bn for school feeding, N-Power, others