“President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday warned that anybody who snatches ballot box during the forthcoming elections will do so at the expense of his or her life. Buhari spoke during the opening session of an emergency caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the party secretariat in Abuja. “I do not expect anybody to make any disturbance. Anybody who decides to snatch ballot boxes or lead thugs to disturb it (elections), maybe that would be the last unlawful action he would take. I really gave the military and the police order to be ruthless. “We are not going to be blamed that we want to rig elections. I want vote whoever they want across the parties. I’m not afraid of that. As you said, I have gone round all the 36 states and Abuja. I think I have gotten enough supporters across the country to look after me. “So, I’m going to warn anybody who thinks he has enough influence in his locality to lead a body of thugs to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system, he would do it at the expense of his own life,” the president, who arrived the meeting at 11.30am, said. We’ll probe polls shift – Buhari The president earlier said the circumstances that led to the postponement of the elections would be probed after the elections. “INEC had all the time and all the resources they wanted and didn’t have to wait for only six hours to cancel the elections and tell us it was impossible. “Definitely, the reason why such incompetence manifested has to be explained to the Nation. After the elections, we have to know exactly what happened and who is responsible,” he said. The president said the electoral body would have had a case if the National Assembly had refused to approve what they asked for, or the government had faltered. The president commended the leadership of the APC for their commitment, especially the use of committed leaders in all constituencies as the party’s agents. He urged the party to go back to its loyal members in all constituencies, even as he asked their constituents to be patient and react in a very mature way by remaining peaceful. Reshuffle your commissioners, Oshiomhole tells INEC The national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, in his opening address, said the postponement of the elections by INEC was meant to frustrate the ruling party and discourage voters. “We are determined to put INEC to shame, and to reiterate that we are committed to free, fair and credible elections. We are not going to compromise on that,” he said. Oshiomhole, who alleged that some INEC commissioners have been compromised, asked the commission to reshuffle them. Insisting that INEC knew that the election was not going to hold last Saturday, he urged President Buhari to ensure those involve in “ national sabotage” are punished using the rule of law. The meeting which lasted for about four hours was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and national leader of the party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Also at the meeting were 18 governors of the party, including that of Zamfara, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Jigawa, Borno, Bauchi, Kebbi, Niger, Lagos, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Kogi, Adamawa, Plateau, Edo, Oyo and Kano. Governors Rochas Okorocha of Imo and Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State were absent at the meeting. Also in attendance were members of the National Assembly including, Senate leader Ahmad Lawan, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Senator Godswill Akpabio, among others. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the Director General of Buhari Campaign Organisation, Rotimi Amaechi, ministers and other top stalwarts of the party were in attendance. The meeting went into a closed door session at 12: 22pm and lasted till around 3.30pm. The president left by 1.25pm, while the vice president stayed till the end. Buhari only warned riggers – Tinubu Speaking to journalists on Buhari’s warning to ballot box snatchers, Tinubu said the president should not be misunderstood. “The president was just reinforcing the fact that if you are out there snatching ballot boxes, and causing destructions, you are at risk of your own life. “Whatever happens to you; no president will give an order that his own citizens should be shot summarily, No, no, it’s okay, emotions are running high these days. Any individual including myself can be misinterpreted. “He [the president] is a law abiding person and he understands categorically and clearly what rule of law is and the lives of individual citizens, that he is in that office to protect. “Now, let me run this; he has been fighting Boko Haram, kidnappers and all these before this election, did you hear him asking them to be shot and executed summarily? “If he had gone through that in the last five years, please give him the benefit of the doubt,” he said. Buhari’s statement call for jungle justice Reacting, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said President Buhari’s threat to the lives of Nigerians was a direct “call for jungle justice and attempt to divert public attention from their closed session where details of their dastardly plot to truncate our democratic process will be perfected.” A statement yesterday by the Director Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said, “We do hope that this call by President Buhari is not a camouflage for the fake soldiers mobilized by the APC to shoot at innocent Nigerians, snatch ballot boxes and execute their rigging plans on the Election Day. It is indeed a license to kill, which should not come from any leader of any civilized nation. “The underlining fact to the above is that President Buhari and APC leaders, upon getting to their voting constituencies last Saturday, realized that there is a nationwide rejection of Buhari’s re-election bid, and this has thrown them into a panic mode.” The PDP said “Nigerians have reached an irreversible democratic consensus to vote Buhari out and elect the Peoples Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who is ready to rescue our nation from the hardship, anguish, agony and bloodletting which the Buhari administration has plunged us.” Dogara: Buhari’s statement violates Nigerian laws House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara said President Buhari’s statement that whoever rigged the 2019 general election should be ready to die was a violation of Nigerian laws. Dogara, who addressed a press conference in Abuja yesterday, said Nigerian laws have provided sanctions for electoral offenders, adding that Buhari’s speech was a call for extra-judicial killings in the country. Dogara also dispelled claims by the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole that INEC connived with the PDP to postpone last week’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. “In view of this statement by the President, it is obvious that the military has been given a central role and co-opted into the conduct of the election despite the fact that they have no constitutional role in our electoral process,” Dogara said. At the press conference were a former  governor of Cross River State, Liyel Imoke; former Ministers of Special Duties and Aviation, Alhaji Tanimu Turaki and Osita Chidoka. CISLAC rejects Buhari’s order ‎Also commenting, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) said President Buhari should immediately withdraw the directive he gave to security agencies to ‘deal ruthlessly’ with ballot box snatchers and those that cause violent during elections. CISLAC said Buhari’s directive may be misinterpreted by the security agents to kill innocent Nigerians during the elections on February 23 and March 9 respectively. The Executive Director of CISLAC Auwal Musa Rafsanjani told Daily Trust on telephone last night that Buhari’s statement was not only unfortunate but also capable of causing violence in the country. “It’s important that our leaders become very sensitive and responsive in the way and manner they speak to Nigerians. In the past, there were allegations that both parties, some even security agents, were the ones perpetrating the acts of killing people. “You can’t threaten people with death. What you need to do is to consciously conscientise Nigerians to live up to their responsibilities as responsible citizens. “But to threaten people with killings, I think it’s condemnable and unacceptable. Election is not a do-or-die affair. The government should rather preach for peace, tolerance, and that people should be responsive and responsible,” he said. Asked what should be done to those that snatch ballot boxes or cause violence during the polls, Rafsanjani said they should be subjected to the relevant laws of the land.  2019 Election: Snatch ballot box at the expense of your life, Buhari threatens (+VIDEO) Aisha Buhari hails husband over anti-rigging comment Ozekhome cautions Buhari, says comment on ballot snatching ‘unpresidential’