Dele Momodu, the publisher of Ovation Magazine, has urged the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar to call and congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress,APC. Momodu in a series of tweet on Tuesday pleaded with Atiku to place Nigeria above every other consideration, no matter how much he feels cheated in the Saturday’s presidential election. His tweet came in after the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC announced results from twelve states,with Buhari in clear lead. See tweets below: THE WAZIRIN ADAMAWA, PLEASE, SAVE NIGERIA
My dear Wazirin, accept my congratulations on an election decently fought by you. I’ve no doubt that you’re a true democrat by your composure and comportment. I was one of your volunteers from the distance like I did for BUHARI in 2015… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, I supported you for only one reason, I believe no government should be encouraged to have a second term if its performance in the first term is below average. I was neither a member of APC nor PDP but a firm believer in a virile opposition… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, you became my option after you won your ticket on the platform of PDP knowing from personal experience that only the top two party tickets have any chance of winning this Presidential race though I supported other younger candidates, morally and otherwise… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, my hope was for a level playing field for all candidates, young or old, but obviously that did not happen, even if no election can ever be perfect. Many Nigerians prayed and fasted and did whatever they could in the expectation that our democracy would deepen… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, to cut a long tale short, many lives have been wasted, many citizens have been brutally injured, and the results have virtually been declared, and the direction is all too obvious. And this is where you come in, as tempers rise, left, right and centre… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, every normal human being would feel deeply hurt with the level of garrison operations we recently witnessed. But all wounds ultimately heal, if properly treated. I want you to place Nigeria above every other consideration, no matter how much you feel cheated… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019  My dear WAZIRIN, please counfound the world by rising up to accept this painful and excruciating development. God has been most kind to you and your family. Your children are well educated and disciplined. Despite the campaign of calumny against you, you rose stoutly in battle… — Dele Momodu Ovation (@DeleMomodu) February 26, 2019   2019:  I can defeat Buhari if I secure PDP ticket  – Kwankwaso Atiku hasn't travelled to US – Aide Atiku to suffer bloody nose in 2019 - Ex-Rep Gebi