The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called on the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded presidential elections, Atiku Abubakar, to accept the will of the people by conceding defeat and congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari on his victory at the poll. A statement signed by ACF National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, on Wednesday in Kaduna said that Atiku as a committed democrat, who cherishes peaceful democratic transition should concede defeat especially as there are credible evidence that the elections have been generally peaceful, free and fair. “Such concession on the part of the main challenger would be in the overall interest of Nigeria and place him among global democrats,” the ACF said. ACF urged other contestants to be magnanimous in accepting defeat by congratulating their opponents and appealed to all Nigerians to demonstrate the same spirit and commitment in the March 9th Governorship and State Assembly Elections. “The successful conclusion of this election despite some of the ugly incidences witnessed in some parts of country in terms of ballot box snatching, killings, security challenges and other logistic problems, Nigerians have clearly demonstrated their resolve to move forward and consolidate the gains of multiparty democracy,” it noted. ACF congratulates President Buhari on his re-election as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the election and salutes the courage of Atiku Abubakar for putting up a gallantry fight with an impressive performance in the presidential elections. ACF also calls on President Buhari to ensure that the new administration keeps to its promise of strengthening our unity and inclusiveness in government, so that no section or group is left behind or left out. ACF commends the courage and firmness of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under its able chairman, Professor Mahmud Yakubu, for not only the smooth and transparent conduct of the 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections, but also for its refusal to be intimidated or cajoled by the initial logistic challenges which led to the postponement of the elections by one week and other unfortunate incidences. ACF particularly salutes the resilient Nigerians for their personal sacrifices to not only exercised their franchise by voting candidates of their choice but also to ensure that their votes got counted. “We equally salutes other stakeholders, especially the National Peace Committee of General Abdulsalami Abubakar, foreign and domestic election observers and many others for their wise counsel and commitment to peaceful election. “We also commends the efforts of the security agencies for the difficult tasks of providing security cover to INEC officials, the electorates, foreign and domestic election observers. It was no mean sacrifice and determination coupled with prayers which made the exercise to come onto its own peacefully and successfully too. “The appeal made by President Buhari to his supporters not to gloat or humiliate the opposition as victory is enough reward for their efforts is timely and appropriate,” the statement said. ACF congratulates Buhari ACF condemns Kaduna, Borno attacks ACF condemns Kaduna, Borno attacks