Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State have called on the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, the National Peace Committee, led by Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to avert what they termed imminent political crisis in the state. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja, the PDP Chairman in the state, Sam Uhuotu, who was accompanied by PDP former governors, serving and ex-lawmakers as well as other  prominent politicians in the state, alleged that the APC-led government was clamping down on opposition leaders. Uhuotu said PDP leaders were being attacked by suspected APC thugs in the state while others have lost their properties to several violent attacks. He said several reports made to security agencies in the state by the PDP fell on deaf ears, adding that critical stakeholders at the federal level must act fast to save the state from imminent crisis. “For the umpteenth time, the Kogi State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is once again constrained to cry out to the security forces, the Nigerian public and the international community that we are still under siege. “Indeed, the situation has deteriorated and is dangerously slipping into total anarchy. The incidences of intimidation, brutality and unprovoked disruption of political meetings and gatherings have not abated but in fact, has worsened with ferocious intensity spreading across the state, as we move towards the general elections. “The acts of intimidation and unleashing of terror by the All Progressives Congress (APC) have become increasingly brazen, reckless, monstrous and ominously dangerous. “We believe that this sordid and unwarranted situation of a state-sponsored violence would have been effectively contained if the security agencies had heeded to our cry and indeed the cry of all Kogi indigenes to confront and check this monster,” he said. When Kogi elders challenge Wada over performance USIP report: PDP asks world leaders to hold APC accountable Why PDP will hardly bounce back to power in 2019 - Chieftain