Afenifere, Middle Belt Forum (MBF), Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum (NEF), and Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) have jointly endorsed the candidacy of the PDP presidential candidate and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. The endorsement was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the Third Summit of the Forum of Nigerian Elders and Leaders held at Sheraton Hotel in Abuja. The communiqué read by Yinka Odumakin was signed by Chief Edwin Clarke (PANDEF) and Co-Chairman of the Forum;  Prof. Ango Abdullahi (NEF) and Co-Chairman of the Forum; Chief Ayo Adebanjo (Afenifere);  Chief Nnia Nwodo (Ohanaeze Ndigbo ) and Dr Bitrus Pogus (MBF) who were all in attendance. It read: “The Forum, having concluded a thorough evaluation of all candidates aspiring to lead our nation through its current challenges and engineer genuine national rebirth, has decided to note: “That several of the younger candidates who presented themselves for the Presidential election, demonstrated great capacity and promise to lead this country creditably and ensure that it engenders proper social and economic development to its people. “However, most of these qualified younger candidates do not, at present, have the machinery and structures to win a Presidential election in Nigeria at present. “Therefore, we adopt the candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the consensus candidate for the office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as he has demonstrated the deep understanding of the critical need of the country at this time and possesses the capacity to proffer clear solutions in that respect. “Calls on all Nigerians, irrespective of religious or ethnic background to stand in unison and vote for Atiku Abubakar on the 16th February 2019 and ensure that they defend their votes.” The forum, which expressed its goodwill toward the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo, who survived a helicopter crash, said the forthcoming elections were vital to the desire to live together in a democratic nation that reflected the aspirations, peaceful co-existence, mutual respect, practice of true federalism. The forum, which said there is solid national and international consensus that the 2019 elections must be credible, underscored the need to watch and support INEC to set new higher standards in election management despite its willingness and ability to conduct free and fair elections. The summit themed: “Elections: The Search for Credible, Free and Fair Elections” was also attended by Alhaji Tanko Yakassai (Leader of Northern Leaders and Stakeholders Assembly), Dr Junaid Mohammed, Prof. ABC Nwosu, Sen. Femi Okunrounmu, and Alhaji Buba Galadima among others. Stop killings or quit, leaders tell Buhari I'm moved to tears over endorsement by PANFDEF, NEF, others - Atiku 2015: Ohanaeze  Ndibgo Endorses GEJ for national conference