The Women’s Situation Room Nigeria (WSRN) has released the initial findings from the accreditation and voting phases of the election, having received reports from its observers in all the 36 states and the FCT. WSRN observers reported an improvement in the gender-sensitivity of the electoral process, with separate lines provided for women where appropriate, and persons living with disabilities, pregnant women, and nursing mothers were given priority in voting. Daily Trust gathered that the WSRN observers also highlighted large turnout of voters at polling units across the country. However, WSRN observers also reported significant barriers to voting in some locations, including: late arrival of voting materials; late arrival or absence of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials; card reader malfunction; and mismatches between the names and photos on Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and those on card readers. The group lamented cases of violence that were reported by observers in several locations. The incidents reported include: a voter killed in Ajetachi, Kogi State; a gun battle in Abonnema, Rivers State, which claimed at least two lives; and multiple outbreaks of fighting at polling units across the country. The WSRN expressed concern about reports that women observers were prevented from entering polling units in Four Corner, Enugu state. WSRN National Coordinator Dr. Joy A. Onyesoh said: “we are deeply troubled by the reports of electoral violence from our observers in the field. “We call on all political parties and candidates to appeal to their supporters to remain calm and peaceful. Tensions are high, and it must not be allowed to escalate into widespread violence.” WSRN also expressed concerns about a video footage showing President Muhammadu Buhari, checking the completed ballot paper of his wife, Aisha. Dr. Onyesoh noted: “This sets a worrying precedent, which undermines women’s rights and their ability to freely exercise their franchise without intimidation or interference.” The group commended INEC for what it called good coordination and quick response to incident reports from observers in the field. The WSRN promised to release a detailed report of the findings from its observation mission, including data collected from its 450 observers deployed across the country. WILPF Nigeria, launches observation program for Osun election 2019: Women group opens situation room in Abuja INEC’s Anambra debacle