Scores of hoodlums known in Lagos as ‘area boys’ yesterday went on rampage at Oshodi and its environs in the Lagos metropolis forcing traders to close shops. It was learnt that the hoodlums stormed the area as early as 8 am attacking shop owners over political issues. Eyewitnesses said that the fracas forced shop owners to quickly abandon their businesses until the arrival of policemen from the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). A trader at the Cairo Shopping Complex, Oshodi, that our correspondent spoke with, Michael Okonkwo, said that the hoodlums attacked traders and customers. Okonkwo added that some of the hoodlums used the opportunity to snatch bags and vandalize shops. “I got to the market around 7am this morning. I was just settling down to spread my goods when I started hearing gunshots coming from Oshodi-along. I quickly closed my shop. The owner of the shop next to mine was not so lucky as the thugs destroyed some of his goods,” he said. Another trader, John Kalu, said that traders were not allowed to open their shops as they were chased away by armed hoodlums. “Many people sustained wounds while fleeing from the thugs. Some of the thugs came from Charity, while others came from Bolade,” Kalu said. A combined team of mobile and regular policemen had been deployed to restore normalcy to the area. The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Lagos State, Mr Jimi Agbaje, has condemned the violence and urged the security agencies to ensure they bring the perpetrators to book. Addressing a press conference in Lagos, Agbaje also lamented that 48 hours after the conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections, results of some House of Representatives constituencies were yet to be released, alleging, “a lot of results are being tampered with.” Flanked at the press conference by his running mate, Mrs Haleemat Busari and Mr Mutiu Shadimu (Oshodi-Isolo 1), Agbaje called on the police and other security forces to be loyal to the Constitution, while appealing to the people of the state to remain calm but vigilant. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, in a statement, however, dismissed claim of the incident as a rumour, but that the Command had intensified patrol and surveillance in Lagos State. Oti stated, “The attention of the Lagos State police command has been drawn to the news making the rounds on the internet to the effect that a group of boys popularly called ‘area boys’ are attacking Igbo traders at Oshodi and preventing them from opening their shops. The Command wishes to debunk the rumour in its entirety as nothing could be further from the truth. “Although the Command received distress calls from concerned Nigerians whose apprehensions were understandably heightened by disturbing rumours emanating from some social media platforms, the Command swiftly and massively deployed its personnel drawn from various units to Oshodi and environs to assuage the feelings of residents and further assure Lagosians of its readiness to decisively deal with any person or group of persons who attempts to breach the public peace.” He said that in order to sustain the peaceful atmosphere, the Command would maintain a high level of police presence in all parts of the state, with emphasis on crime-prone areas. “Those celebrating should do that with modesty, while those unhappy with the results have the privilege of adhering with laid-down procedures of addressing their grievances as provided by the Electoral Act. The Command has made adequate arrangements to secure the venues of the election tribunals in the state. “The Command, however, warns criminally- minded people and disgruntled elements to steer clear of the state or be prepared to contend with security forces in the state,” he said. Hoodlums invade Alaba market Page 4 replace Task force clamps down on illegal trading on rail tracks, confiscates wares