Chairman of the Senate Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream), Senator kabiru Marafa (APC, Zamfara) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel his campaign rally to Zamfara. Marafa, a leading governorship aspirant in Zamfara state, told State House Correspondents that there was no need for the president to go to Zamfara for campaign. ” I am not aware of the cancellation of the APC Zamfara rally; honestly because I was not told. Like I said, I just submitted a proposal which I think will serve the interest of our party, the president and our people. “We don’t have candidates for now because of the political impasse that characterised Zamfara State in the last few months and the president is billed to be in Zamfara on Sunday, February 3. “Because of the rumple between disagreeing parties, we felt it is better Mr President suspends his visit to Zamfara. After all, we are there; we can campaign for him; he knows us; he knows our individual capacities; there is no point bringing all the factions under one umbrella, because once the president is there, if you like the president and you are with him, you will like to show your face. ” However, we feel it is avoidable; but you cannot come to the president with just one single suggestion. So. I just put my opinion across; that if it is a must; maybe the party has fixed February 3 for the visit, then we want to be excused because there is no way President Muhammad Buhari will go to Zamfara and my face is not seen and people will not ask questions and I think it is not fair just to be absent like that. “We are not doing what we are doing to impress anybody; we have already gotten all the necessary trust and belief from Mr President even if he is not there, we will do the right thing. But if the party or the Presidential Campaign Council feels they must be in Zamfara on Sunday, we and our supporters want to be excused and we will conduct our own rally for the president on a different date and we will televise it live on NTA,” he said. Breaking: I'll remain in APC to fight injustice, support Buhari's 're election -Marafa Marafa pledges to remain in APC, work for Buhari Marafa meets Buhari, says Zamfara gov’ship tussle to be resolved soon