Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says prior to the Saturday’s helicopter crash which he and his entourage survived in Kabba, Kogi State, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, had prayed for his protection. Osinbajo spoke during a thanksgiving service held at the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), City of Grace Mega Parish, Lokoja. The vice president said before the incident, he had met with Pastor Adeboye who, according to him, passionately prayed and declared that “God, please, protect this my son (Osinbajo) and let nothing happen to him”. He said when the helicopter crash landed, it quickly dawned on him that God had led Pastor Adeboye to pray for his miraculous deliverance and those of the other crew members. Osinbajo said: “Only God can take the glory for saving my life and that of the nine crew members on board”. He said with his brother also being on board, it would have been a double tragedy for his immediate family and the nation at large were it not for God’s intervention. He said if not for God’s mercy, breaking news on local and international media would have been reported with such a headline as “VP Osinbajo, 9 crew members die in a helicopter crash”. “No amount of thanksgiving and praises to God would be enough for saving my life and nine crew on board. God is the one who can do all things, and only Him can take the glory; we return the glory back to Him. We are here to say thank you, thank you Jesus. We bless his name forever and ever”, he said. He prayed God to bless all the people that had celebrated with him in the state, the nation and the world at large. “All I have to say is that we are grateful and we are moving to the next level; the Lord will uphold us to the next level and Kogi will be number one,” Osinbanjo said. Earlier in a live telecast from the RCCG Headquarters, Lagos, yesterday, Pastor Adeboye, had asked the congregation to rise and give glory to God for saving Osinbajo’s life from the crash. Adeboye said the devil wanted to take the vice president’s life, but God put the devil to shame. He, therefore, asked the congregation to specially appreciate God on behalf of the vice president and all the crew on board for His supernatural protection, saying Nigeria would not mourn. Speaking during the thanksgiving service, Senator Smart Adeyemi, said the survival of Osinbajo and other crew members showed that with God, all things are possible. “We are here to celebrate. What happened yesterday (Saturday) would have consumed the lives of everybody that was there not just the occupants of the helicopter but including those of us that were around on ground to receive them. “The plane landed on a vehicle. The propeller of the helicopter hit about two other vehicles which could have gone into flames and probably consumed every one of us that were there”, he said. How we survived helicopter crash – Osinbajo Happening Now: Osinbajo in thanksgiving service after helicopter crash Why VP survived chopper crash – Oluwo