The police in Lagos have arrested a 16-year-old boy, whose name they wouldn’t disclose, and a 32-year-old man, Prince Chinecherem, who they described as the boy’s lover in a homosexual ring. Chinecherem was alleged to have been using the boy for business transactions, sleeping with him and hiring him to other customers. The police disclosed they have declared two pastors and “some other business executives” wanted for allegedly having carnal knowledge of the minor and belonging to the group. Parading the suspects yesterday, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said that on January 22, 2019 at the Ejigbo area of the state, a 16-year-old boy was seen sneaking out of Chinecherem’s house in a rather suspicious manner. Edgal said curious neighbours accosted the boy and asked him what he had gone to Chinecherem’s house to do. The boy was said to have been unable to give a satisfactory answer to the question, upon which the neighbours asked him to open the plastic bag in his possession for scrutiny. According to Edgal, a probe into the bag revealed that it contained freshly used condoms filled with semen. “At this point, the boy revealed that Prince Chinecherem was his lover. The matter was immediately reported to the police at the Ejigbo police station and the said prince was arrested for interrogation. After preliminary investigation, the matter was called for further enquiry by the Gender Section of the Command. “Both suspects were taken for medical examination and the result revealed that the boy had long been introduced to homosexual act. The worst is that both of them are infected with the HIV virus,” Edgal added. He said the suspects would be charged before the Sexual and Special Offences Court, Ikeja, but that meanwhile, the boy had been sent to health counsellors for health talk on how to manage the situation. Police arrest man, 32, for allegedly infecting teenager with HIV Police arrest man for allegedly infecting boy with HIV Man arrested over alleged sodomy