For decades, the Peugeot pick-up has diligently served individuals, businesses and communities’ efficiently . The Peugeot pick-up has become synonymous with ruggedness, durability and reliability. In keeping to this tradition of the pick-up, PAN Nigeria Limited recently launched a next-gen Peugeot pick-up described as a real 4×4 crossing in the Peugeot brand. The vehicle, a 2.5 litre turbo diesel, 5 speed manual transmission with a 150km/h maximum speed is also tipped to a have robust leg room and significant ground clearance of up 215mm. The 5080mm length pick-up has a width of 1820mm, a total permissible mass supported of up to 2606kg and 60 litres fuel tank. The vehicle, which comes in three colours, Nordic white, light grey and dark green, is also quite efficient on fuel with considerable cost effective maintenance suitable for even small budgets. Commenting on the new delivery from the PAN’s stable, Mrs. Olayinka Seriki, the Zonal Sales Manager (North Central) PAN Nigeria Limited said “the vehicle has been built and designed for Nigerian roads. It is rugged and has good ground clearance. In terms of pricing, it is very competitive in the market. Seriki also said the vehicle has “a lot of room space. If you are looking for the double cabin, the front roll and the back roll, you have a lot of leg room for people unlike some other pick-ups.” The vehicle, she also said, can also be used for other purposes. “It can be converted to other needs as well. You can have it with a back. Some people want to make it bulletproof for cash movement. So it’s a very versatile pickup.” On warrantee she said it “comes with 3 years real warrantee or 100,000km whichever comes first.” On servicing she said “unlike a lot of other cars where you do your servicing every five months, for the pick-up, you do your servicing at every 10,000km. So at the end of the day, the cost of owning the Peugeot pick-up is cheaper because the service circle is longer.” “For service centres, we have them across the country. In Abuja alone, we have five service centres. We also have some independent vehicle repairers apart from the structured repair centres. These are smaller garages that we have identified over time to be very good in Peugeot repairs. “So we have given them additional training to help them. We have them scattered around so wherever you go, you have service support,” she explained. According to her, “PAN also has dedicated technical teams that are ready to be deployed to you wherever you have any issues,” adding that these are Peugeot staff that assist the dealership. She said it’s best to repair at accredited garages as the parts are cost effective because “you are sure you are getting original parts which last longer than the so-called cheaper ones.” Buying the Peugeot pick-up, according to her, is buying ruggedness, and value for money. “The pick-up can go into any terrain, muddy, rainy terrain, bad roads etc. The vehicle is built for that. You can carry enough load and you can covert for other uses,” she said. PAN Nigeria to revive pick-up production after 14 years New Peugeot 508 makes bold-showing at the Paris Show 2010 Peugeot RCZ