The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has promised to ensure the completion  of  the secretariat of the FCT chapter of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ). The minister made the pledge when he commiserated with members of the union over the death of three of their colleagues in the past two months. He described the deaths as a loss to the journalism profession, saying the three fallen journalists were friends of the administration which was why he personally wanted to condole with the council members. The minister presented letters of condolence on behalf of the FCT Administration (FCTA) to the Council’s Chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Ogbeche, for onward transmission to the families of the deceased journalists; Grace Nwodo (Madam Waka of Love FM), Olajide Fashikun of Gong News and Chris Edoga of FRCN, who died between December, 2018, and January, 2019. Malam Bello, who was accompanied by the Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin, expressed disappointment at the state of the secretariat. He, however, assured the council that all hindrances to the completion of the  secretariat had been cleared and that the contractor would be mobilised to site for the completion of the complex in a couple of weeks. “I am surprised that the building is still like this because I thought that that by now it would have progressed more than this. But I assure you that in the next two weeks, the contractor will be mobilised to site to complete at least the first phase because we agreed that the complex would be completed in phases. I can also assure you that when the first phase is completed, the building will be more benefitting than any other in the country,” he said. The FCT NUJ Chairman, Emmanuel Ogbeche, thanked the minister for his continued support to the council, especially in his effort to ensure the completion of the secretariat. He lamented lack of a befitting secretariat for the council and the slow pace of work at the site, calling on the minister to make good his promise to complete it. FCT minister advises elected leaders to be humble Abuja working to become West Africa’s conference capital — FCT Minister ...Please provide insurance for journalists