Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state on Thursday called on young people not to allow any politician use them to create violence for whatever selfish reason which they intend to achieve. Ortom made the remark while addressing newsmen in Makurdi about the outcome of the just concluded Presidential and National Assemblies elections in the state. “The election was relatively peaceful, free and fair. Though not 100 percent because there were issues. But, I thank INEC, security agencies for being professional. The state is really happy with the outcome of the results and that demonstrate what democracy is all about,” he said. The governor noted that once the wishes of people are done, everyone would be happy, stressing that he was happy with the results of the elections conducted in the state and above all, that he was happy with the level of enlightenment of people in the state as outcome showed it was not a one-way affair. He further urged youths in the state, especially those he alleged to have been influenced by Senator George Akume to torch PDP bill boards and other electoral materials while they rallied Makurdi town on Wednesday in celebration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory to desist from doing so. Ortom advised young people to rather tell politicians who try to use them for destruction of lives and property to avail their own children for such purposes just as he disclosed that reports have been made to appropriate security agencies about the conduct of those who allegedly threatened the peace of the state on Wednesday. “Let me say arising from the shameful conduct of the senator representing Zone B, who mounted on a vehicle and then mobilised some thugs who went around town, insulting people as usual in a drunken manner and destroying the PDP billboards in town to the extent of even looting at the Wadata market that this is uncalled for. “This is a man who should be very grateful to God because for 20 years, he had the opportunity to serve this state. He should be grateful to people for allowing him to serve them, though with low performance rating. “Throughout the period of his service, he had contested five times, so he should be able to reciprocate the good will of the people. Yesterday (Wednesday), attack on PDP supporters and destruction of billboards was uncalled for. “You lost an election, once the results were not declared in your favour, you feel that you could result to violence, the honourable thing to do is to go to court, the tribunals are already there. I don’t believe that George Akume was in his normal sense from what I saw him doing yesterday in the name of celebrating the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Celebration should not turn into stealing, breaking people’s shop, celebration should not turn destroying other people’s property or become problem to other citizens of the state because roads were blocked in the name of celebrating. “It is not good enough for a citizen of his status; so I think something is wrong with him,” the governor posited. Ortom, PDP planning to unleash terror in Benue - APC candidate Ortom urges calm over destruction of PDP's billboards Ortom: A governor on trial