The Chairman, APC Presidential Campaign Council in Kano State, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his reelection for the second term. Nanono, however, urged the president to give priority to revitalisation of moribund industries in the country. Nanono made the remark while addressing officials of the campaign council and other party elders in Kano on Wednesday night. NAN reports that the event was organise by the council as part of activities to celebrate the victory of President Buhari in the just-concluded election. He said stressed the need for the president to do the neeful on the ailing industries in the country with a view to tackling unemployment. He said the revitalisation of the industries would provide job opportunities for the teeming unemployed persons in the country. According to him, the Federal Government should also come up with more empowerment programmes to enhance the socio-economic status of Nigerians. Nanono, who is a former Chairman All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) in Kano, also urged Buhari to look into the education sector. “We have seen how the agricultural sector received the needed support, right now our state is one of the rice producing states that is proud of Buhari administration. “If the education sector is also given the necessary attention and support, it will go along way in developing the country,”Nanono said. He said the people of Kano State would continue to support the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari in order to provide the much needed development. “In Kano State we have over 20 dams that are not being utilised fully, so if the Federal Government can come in we can use them for irrigation activities. “Kano people are ardent supporters of Buhari so we hope he will reciprocate the gesture in view of our population in the country,” he said. He, therefore, called on Nigerians irrespective of their political and religious inclinations to support and pray for Buhari to enable him consolidate on the achievements recorded in the last four years. NAN reports that among those who attended the programme include Kannywood celebrities who supported the president’s reelection bid. Responding on behalf of the celebrities, Nuhu Abdullahi, a popular producer and actor called on President Buhari to support film production to boost their business. (NAN) Forces pushing for candidates ahead of Buhari’s cabinet expansion How Kwankwaso’s men cajoled Kano APC elders to endorse him for 2015 Overwhelmed by massive reception in Kano... Buhari predicts victory for self in 2019