The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Uche Secondus, has urged Nigerians to vote out President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) on February 16, 2019, as he alleged that the president is no longer in charge of affairs. Chief Secondus made the assertion while addressing a crowd of PDP supporters who thronged the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, venue of the PDP presidential campaign rally which held yesterday. Secondus referenced alleged gaffes by President Buhari during debates and rallies and averred that Nigeria could not continue to condone “a man who has been bringing embarrassment to the country. “Have you been following the debates? he asked the enthusiastic crowd, who answered in the affirmative. “Every mistake of Buhari, and by the special grace of God, they would continue to make mistakes, shows the man is not aware of anything and he is not in charge. “Go out to vote and let your votes count. Stand by your votes and change a man who is embarrassing Nigeria. He went to Germany and addressed the country as Western Germany. He was in Warri recently and addressed the governorship candidate as presidential candidate. “He suspended the CJN and said he was not aware he suspended him. He is not in charge. It is now clear a cabal has hijacked the government and we cannot allow a proxy government by a cabal to continue in this country,” Secondus said. Addressing the rally, Atiku thanked Delta State for remaining with the PDP since 1999, noting that every development in the state was the legacy of PDP. “So why vote another party that has not done anything for you?” he asked. “I will renovate all the sea ports in Delta State. I will also complete all abandoned infrastructure projects by the Federal Government because you are an opposition state. I promise I will deliver on these promises,” he said. Atiku promises to renovate sea ports, completes all abandoned FG projects in Delta if elected Secondus, Adeniran in final battle for PDP chair 2015 elections: Patience Jonathan on the rampage