Software are pushing standalone textbooks into the past, and faster than ever thought, according to Microsoft founder Bill Gates. For years, in his annual Gates Letter, Gates has speculated about software complementing the work of classroom teachers but also augment learning for students. It is no longer speculation. Digital curricula have entered classrooms in the US, from kindergarten to secondary school, using services like i-Ready, Zearn, and LearnZillion. And more than 3,000 schools in the US teach a free digital course called Big History, funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Big History uses software to give students immediate feedback on their writing assignment. Traditional textbooks are “a pretty limited way to learn something. Even the best text can’t figure out which concepts you understand and which ones you need more help with. It certainly can’t tell your teacher how well you grasped last night’s assigned reading,” said Gates. Digital curricula come in different modes—complete with a suite of readymade learning aids and materials that teachers can administer and control, freeing up more time that teachers can devote to individual students. It is gaining momentum in the US. Last year, Lagos government began moves to replace obsolete textbooks with electronic books, but its curriculum hasn’t gone as far as algorithms that rate student performance and produce reports teachers can act on. Melinda Gates, co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and co-author of the Annual Gates Letter, says in addition to adapting to what students know, the growing fleet of online tools facilitate new approaches to teaching and learning that adapts to who students are. “In 2019, the typical college student is no longer the stereotypical student who lives in a dorm and graduates in four years after a few spring breaks somewhere warm. “Almost half of today’s college students are 25 or older; well over half have a job; more than a quarter have kids of their own. “That’s a big reason why two out of every five students who enrol in higher education will either withdraw for a while or drop out altogether.”  Software pushing textbooks into history — Bill Gates New gadget wants a slice of Apple Is a degree worth it?