Valentine’s Day is tomorrow and love is in the air. The day which is marked every February 14th move lovers and well wishers to surprise one another with romantic gestures and gifts. As widely opined, most ladies expect the males to go the extra mile to make them feel loved and special on that day. Some Nigerians in a voxpop shared their opinion on why ladies believe men are obligated to give them gifts on valentine day. Bethel John: “It is because the girl feels the guy is in a better position to provide and it is the responsibility of the guy to give them gifts. They feel like the guys have the capacity and they don’t though it is not general. it is just the mindset of some girls”. Frank Obi: “I feel the reason is because most girl feels like everything is supposed to be done by the guy alone and it is wrong although I have seen instances where girls buy for the guy but it is rear. Girls also feel like valentine is a day to celebrate them not celebrating the love that is shared between the two. I feel the gift is to come from both of them”. Amanda Bello: “it is because of appreciation the girl feels she sacrifices too much for the guy and wants to feel appreciated and what better excuse to get gifts from your boyfriend than on valentine day”. Blessing Ben: “I cannot buy a gift for a guy on valentine day. I can buy him birthday gift but not valentine gift. I am not sure why but I just can’t”. Fatima Dauda: “I feel it is because the man did the pursuing before they started dating and she feels like since he was the one that asked her out he should be the one to get her gift”. OlamideSelim: “That’s how it’s meant to be, even in a family the man is expected to provide for the family and that’s how it’s meant to be”. Jennifer Okeke: “When it’s not the girl that asked the boy to be her val. Why will the girl now waste her money to buy gift. I can’t, if the guy is waiting for a gift he is going to wait for long. Favour Amadi: “Girls are the ones with deeper emotions and so when a guy gifts them it makes them feel loved. Guys know this and that’s why they gift girls but this doesn’t mean a girl cannot do the same for her man they love it too. The truth is, it is actually a personal choice”. Valentine: different strokes for different folks Why wait till February 14th? Do you celebrate Valentine Day?