MTN Foundation has launched a series of workshops tagged: “The Business of the Arts Series” aimed at sharpening the business skills of students of MUSON Music Scholars’ Programme. The first in the quarterly series was held at the Agip Recital Hall of the MUSON Centre in Lagos with the theme: “Copyright & Intellectual Property Protection.” Speaking on the new initiative, the Executive Secretary of MTN Foundation, Nonny Ugboma, said: “We have a long-term commitment to the development of young talent, as demonstrated through our interventions over the years.” She added: “Last year, we sponsored a master-class with the renowned countertenor, Daniel Taylor and soprano impresario, Ellen McAteer for all students of the MUSON School of Music. “Our desire to see well-rounded music professionals who are skilful and understand the business of music led us to introduce this workshop series for participants in the music scholarship programme. The workshops will help prepare the scholars for the real world.” In her remarks, the Director, School of Music, MUSON, Princess Banke Ademola, thanked MTN Foundation for its contribution to the development of music in Nigerian society. She told participants at the inaugural workshop that, “What MTN Foundation is offering is critical learning often overlooked or unavailable to aspiring artistes. “It’s difficult to find words to express my delight that beyond supporting the scholarship programme, MTN Foundation, is providing this opportunity.” The workshop enabled participants to learn from legal experts the fundamentals of intellectual property rights, discussing its benefits and possible consequences of its negligence, using a variety of local and foreign case studies. Participants were also trained on business insights which will enhance their entrepreneurial skills. It will be recalled that the collaboration between MTN Foundation and MUSON dates back to 2006, with the initiation of a scholarship programme that has produced hundreds of graduates from the MUSON School of Music, who are currently achieving laudable feats in various spheres of arts and culture globally. Through its Foundation, MTN Nigeria reiterated its commitment to continue supporting arts and culture which remains a crucial focus of MTN’s social investment mandate in Nigeria. MTN Foundation holds 10th graduation ceremony MTN Foundation hosts Masterclass for music scholars 26 graduate as MTN Foundation music scholars