A chieftain of the APC, Chief Johnbosco Onunkwo, yesterday, called on leaders of Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo to distance the organisation from partisan politics. Chief Onunkwo made the call in Awka during a summit organised by the Ohanaeze Youth Wing Worldwide themed: “The Fate of Igbo Youths in Present Nigeria”. According to him, Ohaneze Ndi Igbo was made up of individuals from different political groups and must not engross itself in partisan politics. He said Ohaneze was a socio-cultural organisation and not a political party and therefore should not be dragged into the murky waters of politics. “In Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo, we have people from different political shades, and even non-partisans, our goal is to insulate Ohanaeze from partisan politics while ensuring that our members participate actively in national politics,” he said. He also urged Nigerian youths from the eastern extraction to optimise their potentials towards national development. According to him, youths from Igbo land must see themselves as critical elements for the unity and survival of the country. Onunkwo who was installed the Grand Patron of the body at the event, urged the youths to eschew internal rancour and resist bribery capable of smearing the image of the association. He promised to use his status as the grand patron of the body to promote youth development and for the association to play a leading role in the development of Igbo nation and Nigeria. Earlier, National Leader of Ohanaeze Youth Wing Worldwide, Chief Arthur Obiora, said the summit was to appraise the condition of youths and recognise those that contributed to the progress of the body. He described the Igbo youths as hardworking and industrious people who needed fair environment to express their ingenuity. The summit attracted participants from Imo, Abia, Ebonyi, Anambra, Enugu, Delta and Rivers states. Ohanaeze Ndigbo not fair to Buhari, says Anambra APC Ohanaeze not fair to Buhari — Anambra APC chairman ‘How Buhari’s ‘new’ gov’t should address Igbo concerns’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin