The Lagos State Government yesterday assured that asides the 10 people who died as a result of burns during the Ijegun pipeline explosion last Thursday, the remaining 12 victims will be adequately taken care of to forestall further death. According to the Permanent Secretary in the State Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, the state government has so far expended over N10 million to take care of the 22 rescued victims. Of the figure, 12 were taken to Trauma and Burns Unit at the Gbagada General Hospital while one is being managed at Alimosho General Hospital. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Explaining the rationale behind the death, she said: “Due to the severe and high degree of burns suffered by these victims which is almost at 100 percent, we lost 10 of them but we are doing everything possible to ensure that no other life is lost and we will continue to do all we can do to provide intensive care for the remaining 12 and from reports received so far, they are responding to treatment” She said further “Victims of the inferno are being provided with adequate and quality care in our facilities, free of charge in line with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive and they are being closely monitored and cared for by our specialists to ensure their full recovery and rehabilitation”, she said The Chief Medical Director, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Dr. Adetokunbo Fabamwo, who spoke in the same vein to our correspondent, urged families of the victims not to liaise with any non-hospital staff in various hospitals where the victims are being treated and report any case of extortion or ill-treatment by any person to his office. “LASUTH alone has expended about N6 million so far to cover laboratory investigations, X-rays, consumables and medications. In fact, one of the patients was treated with silver patches, costing N350,000,” Fabamwo said. He added that on daily basis, on-the-spot assessments are being conducted by specialists in burns and trauma, to ensure that the victims are rehabilitated in line with treatment protocol for the burns. The ‘forgotten’ victims of Kaduna bomb blasts How snakes killed 250 Nigerians in 3 weeks Abuja bomb blast: One week after, victims tell stories of woe Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin