The Founder of The Dome Entertainment Center, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo has instituted  an entrepreneurial research chair at Nnamdi Azikiwe University,UNIZIK Business School to research into the Onitsha  market as a central hub of Igbo enterprise development. The research is to document the beginning, the growth and development of entrepreneurship at the Onitsha market which at a time, was the largest market in West Africa. He made announcement at  Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK), Awka, Anambra state, shortly after being conferred with an award of Business Philanthropist of the Year by the UNIZIK Business School. Onitsha-Market refers to all the markets located in almost all corners of Onitsha metropolis – Onitsha and parts of adjoining towns of Ogbaru, Obosi, Ogidi, Ogbunike and Nkwelle Ezunaka of Anambra state. Onitsha-Market may have started in the sixteenth century (1506) when Onitsha people settled near the bank of River Niger. There are over 40 markets of various sizes spread in this metropolis, majority of which are classified for particular distinct goods. While Onitsha Main Market, the root of all markets in Onitsha,is known mainly for clothing and other wears with a mix of household items, babies . Onitsha-Market is the second most densely populated market in Nigeria after Lagos. Annual volume of trade in Onitsha-Market is in excess of  three billion dollars with about 40 percent of this figure in constant circulation through the unbanked transactions. The market also has many thriving industries; manufacturing shoes, clothing, textiles, drinks, plastics, packaged water, pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, polythenes, cosmetics, aluminum products. Over five million visitors are received in the  market with over twelve million different transactions on daily basis. According  Okonkwo, the coming generation of Nigerians will learn alot from the entrepreneurial spirit of the Igbo man which were developed from the Main Market, Onitsha. He said before the emergence of large markets in Lagos, the main market was hub of Igbo enterprise, adding that “at that time, every Igbo billionaire took off from the main market in Onitsha”. “I had my first lessons in trading at the Onitsha main market, rising from there to become who I am today,” he said. He said since the trend has changed and a proper study of the market and the growth of the apprenticeship system in Igbo land will add value to new business innovations that would sustain growth and ensure enterprise survival. He challenged  UNIZIK Business School to use the research to help create innovations that would turn Nigerian businesses into super brands . “The lessons I learnt at the Main Market are immortal. I could not have learnt it from any university at the time. And that is why I always look at Onitsha with nostalgia. Thecity, and the market, laid the foundation for who I am today. I won’t ever forget. “I am therefore happy that the management of Nnamdi Azikiwe University accepted the challenge to start a business school that will transform lives and help bring innovation to our traditional trading practice. I believe with a research into the Onitsha main market, our children will be great intellectual contributiors  to the vaunted entrepreneurial spirit of the Igboman,” he said. “This is a story that Unizik Business School must document and tell the world. Unizik Business School must strive to bring the world to Awka to learn something about the Igbo entrepreneurial spirit which created the main market.’’ Unizik honours Kinagibe, Achebe, Offor at 13th convocation IPOB sit-at-home order obeyed in Asaba, Onitsha, defied in P/Court Meet ‘quiet’ UniZik student who won N1m oratory prize Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin