Naval authority in charge of the Forward Operating Base (FOB), Badagry, at the weekend, said it has intensified its surveillance and patrol around the Badagry creeks in other to cub the rising cases of smuggling of contraband into the country. It said several gunboats to have been deployed to notorious areas in the creeks. The Commander of the Forward Operating Base (FOB), Badagry, Navy Captain Senibo Tamuno Senibo, while handing over 173 cartons of frozen turkey to officials of the Nigeria Customs Service from Western Marine Command, said that the move became necessary because of the unrepentant nature of criminals in the area. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Senibo said that in less than three weeks, the base had intercepted over 500 cartons of frozen turkey and about 100 bags of 50 kg bags of rice, allegedly being smuggled into the country from neighbouring Republic of Benin by criminals. He said that at the weekend, the base intercepted a fresh birch of 173 cartons of turkey being ferried into Nigerian in one wooden boat at Akere creek, Badagry. “Because of the shallow nature of the creek, when the criminals sighted the naval operatives, they quickly jumped into the swamp and bolted away. You see, part of our constitutional role at peacetime is to enforce and articulate all customs laws. With this, we are able to conduct anti-smuggling patrol around Badagry creeks noted for smuggling.” “We will leave no stone unturned to get to the sponsors of these criminal acts which is destroying the economy of the nation. We won’t leave out their Nigerian.” The Assistant Superintendent of Customs, Lewis Embe, who led a team of customs officers to take over the seized products, hailed the efforts of the navy. Embe urged the naval men not to relent in their efforts to curtail smuggling in the country.  Navy combs Badagry creeks, seizes150 cartons of turkey Navy intercepts five boats with 170 cartons of frozen turkey Navy intercepts boat with 80 bags of smuggled rice Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin