The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has dismissed a personnel of the corps, Corps Assistant II Oshemi Innocent, for allegedly shooting and killing a colleague, Senior Inspector of Corps Mamman Wuyah at the Lagos Deep Offshore Logistics, LADOL. The suspect also allegedly shot and killed a Korean working in LADOL. The Commandant General of the NSCDC, Abdullahi Gana Mohammed, disclosed this while addressing a press conference on the matter at the corps headquarters in Abuja yesterday. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Mohammed, who was represented by the Corps’ Assistant Commandant General in charge of critical infrastructure protection unit, Jonathan Iyogho, said the accused had already been handed over to the police for prosecution. He said the incident happened on the 8th of April, 2019 at LADOL, adding that SIC Wuyah died at the spot while the Korean, who was taken to the hospital, died two days after. “We set up a panel to investigate the incident and it has recommended his [Oshemi’s] dismissal and prosecution which we have already implemented,” the NSCDC boss said. Oshemi claimed he shot his colleague and the Korean because he was being owed by the NSCDC. The Commandant General however, debunked such claim. “There is no way the Corps would have owed him [Oshemi] because we are not responsible for salary payment. Personnel get their salaries through the IPPIS platform,” CG Mohammed said. He added that allowances were being paid directly to the security personnel by LADOL, stressing that Oshemi’s claim that he was being owed by the NSCDC was false. While assuring the public that the incident would not repeat itself, the CG disclosed that he had ordered a forensic and psychological profiling of all personnel to ascertain their state of mental health before deployment. NSCDC dismisses, prosecutes personnel for killing colleague, Korean As Korean Embassy Intervenes in LADOL’s Shooting Incident Fatal Shooting at LADOL Free Zone Threatens Nigerian Economy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin