A businessman, Rotimi Omodayo, on Wednesday told a Mapo customary court in Ibadan that his wife, Tawa, whom he married five years ago, had been eking out earnings through adultery. Tawa had approached the court praying its president, Alhaji Suleiman Apanpa, to end her marriage to Omodayo, alleging he was “irresponsible”. The respondent readily consented to his wife’s prayer with his own allegation that she had been “adulterous” and had brought shame on him. “I am so happy that Tawa herself decided to call it quits with me because she has been an unnecessary burden to my life. Aside from the fact that I have caught her in many adulterous acts, Tawa’s waywardness also crippled me financially. “Precisely in 2017, a man who I later got to know as her concubine, invited me to his house, informing and pleading that he had done me great evil by sleeping with my wife. I was completely shocked because he said it in the presence of Tawa, his mother and a few other people. “The man also said that since he had been sleeping with Tawa, his life had been upside down and that it had been revealed to him that except he apologised openly to me, he might never have God’s blessing again.” The respondent’s mother, corroborating his argument, described Tawa as an “ingrate”. She added that she paid nothing less than N500,000 to take care of Tawa when she had a child-bearing problem. Tawa had told the court that her husband was fond of stealing her money and recharge cards. However, Tawa could not say anything when the court asked her to respond to Omodayo’s allegation of adultery and the invitation to him by her concubine. Apanpa held that there was no more love between Omodayo and Tawa and something tragic might happen if they were allowed to continue to live together as a couple. He consequently dissolved the marriage. The arbitrator granted custody of the four-year-old child the union produced to the petitioner and ordered Omodayo to be paying N5,000 monthly as the child’s feeding allowance. He also directed him to be responsible for the child’s education and other needs.  Court dissolves 7-year-old marriage, docks Romeo pastor for daring court Man denies paternity of last child I''m sorry for impregnating someone else’s wife, Priest begs court Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin