The Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) and its presidential candidate, Pastor Aminchi Habu, have withdrawn their petition challenging the February 23 election. Following the application for withdrawal, the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba, dismissed the entire petition and commended the parties for their conduct. “All is well that ends well,” the judge said. At the resumed hearing, PDM and Habu’s counsel, Aliyu Lemu Esq. told the tribunal that they “have found other alternative ways of seeking redress for the complaint alleged in our petition.” PDM and Habu brought the petition challenging their exclusion from participating in the February 23 presidential election brought under Section 138 of the Electoral Act, 2010, which held that the election would be nullified where “a candidate was validly nominated but unlawfully excluded.” In the affidavit deposed to by  Habu and the National Secretary of PDM, Engineer Abubakar Abdullahi Gwada, they submitted that it would be the best to withdraw the petition in the circumstance to “decongest the docket of this honourable court and save precious judicial time and to save the respondents from any unnecessary expense of defending this petition.” Lawyers to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Yunus Usman (SAN); Buhari, Yusuf Ali (SAN); and All Progressives Congress (APC), Funke Adekoya (SAN) did not object to the withdrawal of the petition but rather said it was a positive development. Speaking on the withdrawal, Habu said the decision is to give peace a chance in Nigeria and prepare for the 2023 presidential election. The national chairman of PDM, Frank Igwebuike, said the move was a reflection of the supremacy of the political party above any individual. BREAKING: Presidential tribunal: PDM withdraws petition against Buhari Tribunal dismisses motion to withdraw petition against Buhari, APC Presidential Tribunal closes pre-hearing in PDM’s petition Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin