The Inspector General of Police, IGP, Muhammed Adamu has ordered a total overhaul of security on south-west, south-south and south-east highways. He also assured that the killers of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of the leader of the Pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Afenifere, Chief Reuben Fasorantin will be found and made to face the full weight of the Law. Police spokesman DCP, Frank Mba, who made this known in statement on Saturday, added that the IGP noted that the Ondo State Police Command, backed by Special Forces and seasoned investigators from the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Technical Intelligence Unit (TIU) deployed from the Force Headquarters, Abuja, have commenced a massive manhunt for the killers with a view to tracking, arresting and bringing them to justice. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said, “while condemning the heinous and barbaric crime, the IGP, as part of measures to prevent a future occurrence of such incidence, has ordered the total overhaul of security architecture on the highways straddling the Southern part of the country.” Mba added that, “in this vein, the Commissioners of Police in the affected States were ordered by the IGP to emplace adequate security arrangement in their areas of jurisdiction (AOR).” The IGP said the Force Headquarters had perfected plans to replicate the special security arrangement powered by “Operation Puff Adder” currently ongoing in Kaduna- Abuja expressway in key highways in the Southern part of the country. The IGP further reiterates the fact that the Force will not rest on its oars until sanity is restored in every nook and cranny of the country. He, therefore, called for calm and support from all Nigerians, especially residents of Ondo State, in aid of the current investigation. Police nabs 1000 kidnap suspects along Kaduna-Abuja highway Police parades 8 for killing ex-Katsina commissioner, robbery, kidnapping Anambra governorship election: Police to deploy 21,084 personnel Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin