Aminu Abubakar Suleiman is among the aspirants for the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). A seasoned Quantity Surveyor and public-private partnership, Suleiman in this interview speaks on his ambition and how he intends to bring development to the people of Kogi if given the mandate. What informed your decision to contest the governorship position of Kogi State? Kogi State by all development indices is in dire straits and needs to be salvaged from the deep. Despite our strategic location and resource distribution, we still cannot take advantage and transform it into value. We have not only gained a notorious reputation within the State but have succeeded in leaving a convincing impression to outsiders about how awkward governance has been made to become. The challenges facing the State require people with extraordinary ideas and the appropriate mix of professionally consistent public and private sector experience to put things in perspective. As a bridge builder which is evident in my vocation, I consider myself a link between the establishment and the masses. Kogi State has been in the news for most of the negative narratives associated with leadership failure. The primary responsibility of government to its citizens as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is to guarantee their welfare and security. Unfortunately, reverse is the case. I just ended a tour of the 21 local government areas in Kogi State and was moved to tears with tales of able bodied citizens expressing themselves in a depressed state. Cries of helpless mothers and children yearning for health care, security and other basic necessities of life, over a hundred lecturers sacked in one fell swoop for agitating for their inalienable right and interest, non-payment of salaries etc.  In some local governments, residents in some wards have abandoned their ancestral homes for fear of being killed due to ethnic conflicts, herdsmen attack, banditry etc. Despite the abundant human and natural resources spread across the State, its debt profile still galloped steadily between 2014 to 2019 as evidently portrayed by figures from the Debt Management Office (DMO). With dwindling Federal Allocations over the past 5 years, this government has received more non-statutory funds by way of bailouts and refunds with nothing to show for it. Despite its fair liquidity, it embarked on a futile screening exercise that proved disastrous after three and half years yet the wage bill remained unassailable. Where institutions and systems exist, its capacity to operate has been grossly undermined due to low motivation and a loss of dignity at work. As a consummate Project Manager, Public-Private Partnership Expert and Quantity Surveyor who has been in the business of producing unique products, managing a portfolio of projects and services with scarce resources for over 20 years, I believe I am in a better position to transform and steer the ship of the state towards the path of progress. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE What would be your areas of focus if given the mandate to govern the state? I have carried out a painstaking situation analysis of the State of affairs and have encapsulated issues that will form my policy thrust into four broad areas namely: Fundamentals of government; welfare and security of the people; economic development; wealth creation, job creation, revenue development; fiscal responsibility; accountability and transparency; social infrastructure, housing, health education. More than 30 aspirants are seeking to fly the PDP ticket? What are your chances amongst the gladiators? I am not perturbed by the number of aspirants. If anything, it shows how determined Kogites are to dislodge and rid themselves of the misfortune that has befallen them. Politics is an interest driven event and a game of numbers. By this number, Kogites will have enough time to dig deep, weigh their options and build bridges along lines that inspire hope and confidence for a better and greater Kogi State. I am confident and inspired by the opportunities available at the moment to contribute my quota and I will not hesitate to explore all options available to me. If we must be fair and just in the negotiations for political power, representation and balancing, then I think our outing is timely and consistent with happenings in the State. What plans do you have for teeming unemployed youths of the state? You will agree with me that the youth unemployment rate peaked at an all-time high of 36.50% in the third quarter of 2018 according to Trading Economics. Just recently, the Federal Government said it is most likely to reach 33.5% by 2020. People who were hitherto gainfully employed have been out of jobs in the last four years. When the PDP Government held sway, there was never a time the unemployment rate exceeded a 14% threshold. If this worrisome trend continues without a carefully planned response mechanism, the welfare and security of lives and property of citizens cannot therefore be guaranteed. The last PDP government in Kogi State before the incumbent rolled out youth empowerment programs which were largely successful. The YAD4KOGI was a case in point, the Nigerian Youth Employment and Social Support Operation (YESSO) World Bank Assisted Project, Korea International Cooperation Agency (Vocational Centre) etc. were and are still there for our teeming youths to benefit from. These laudable programs have either been abandoned or given less priority, resulting to restive youths who now engage in kidnapping, thuggery and other social vices plaguing the state today. A large number of the active labor force which comprises mainly of the youths in the state civil service have also been affected by the protracted screening exercise which took a better part this government’s tenure.  My government will reinvent the wheel and roll out youth empowerment programs that will include skill acquisition, exchange programmes, scholarships with emphasis on vocational skills, small and medium scale businesses, moral and financial support. The major goal of our youth programmes will be hinged on capacity building for sustainability, self-sufficiency and youth participation in governance. The salaries of workers and pensioners have remained big problem in the state. How would you address this aspect if you become governor? The issue of salaries and pension backlog has become a recurring decimal in virtually every state of the federation today. It has become further exacerbated by poor leadership competence and experience. As at today, Kogi State debt profile rose from a paltry N10.3billion in Dec. 31 2014 to N96.9Bn in December 31 2018 according to figures being warehoused at the Debt Management Office. So far, lifelines have been given by way of bailout even when windfalls such as the Paris Refund and Abacha loot which were never contemplated or anticipated where returned and shared. By the time a new government comes in, the desire to offset debts, salary and pension backlogs will subject the entire system to undue pressure. But what else can we do, this is our State, this is our home and we must find a remedy to whatever condition we find ourselves. To prevent a further plunge into the deep, as part of our policy thrust, we will ensure strict adherence and compliance to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, boost wealth creation, improve on our internal revenue generating capacity, run an accountable and transparent people-oriented government. That way, it will avail us the opportunity to expand our revenue base by making environmental and business friendly laws, creating special purpose vehicles that will interface with critical items on the Exclusive list of the Federal Government that have the capacity of turning around the fortunes of our State attracting more investors. Examples of such areas are; the Inland waterways, mineral deposits, federal roads, federal assets within the state etc. A total turn-around of the State’s IGR capacity can conveniently augment the monthly allocations overtime if we consistently and persistently maintain our action plan to tame the salary and pension scourge. Ex-NFF chief, Lulu, joins race for Kogi governorship Top Igala politicians pledge support for Audu APC governorship primaries: The gladiators and new revelations in Kogi politics Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin