A witness for Chief Chris Uba of the PDP, yesterday, told the Anambra Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Awka that thugs chased away PDP polling unit agents and forced INEC officials to sign results under duress. Mr. Samuel Chukwu, the PDP collation officer in Ihiala Local Government Area, who testified for Chief Uba against Sen. Ifeanyi Ubah, said this at the resumed hearing of a consolidated petition. On whether he signed any result, he said he did not because some thugs chased away PDP agents and forced INEC officials to sign the results. However, other witnesses presented by George Igbokwe (SAN), Counsel to Uba, said voter registers were not used in some polling units in some local government areas during the February 23 senatorial election. Mr. Bright Nebedum said as the PDP agent for Orumba South, there were issues in the result from the local government due to inconsistencies and violence. The witness who had earlier identified smart card reader reports, voter register, ward and local government results he deposed in his affidavit, said the election lacked substantial compliance. Nebedum said most of the results were not signed by PDP agents and that those that were signed must have been done by impostors. He cited some of the polling units where voter register was not used to include Eziagu Ward 01, Eziagu Ward 05 and Eziagu before counsel to Ubah called him to order. When asked how possible it was to generate card reader reports from polling units where he claimed voter register was not used, he alleged that people were authenticated via the card reader machine and allowed to vote without reference to voter registers, adding that it was responsible for the non-tally of figures from the voter register, smart card readers and poll result. Presidential tribunal: How Bomb explosions hindered voting in Borno — Witness Kano rerun: How thugs disenfranchised voters Akwa Ibom guber: Udom'' s witness contradicts self Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin