The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar yesterday tendered a copy of the form containing personal information of President Muhammadu Buhari before the Presidential Elections Petitions Tribunal. Atiku and PDP’s lead counsel Levy Uzoukwu (SAN) tendered Form CF001 from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) before the tribunal. They also tendered receipt and acknowledgement letter from the INEC Director of Legal, which were all admitted in evidence by the tribunal. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Buhari’s lead counsel Wole Olanipekun (SAN) opposed to the admissibility of the documents. Atiku and PDP stated that Buhari deposed to an affidavit dated November 24, 2014 where he “claimed that all his academic qualification documents as filled in his Presidential Form, President APC 001/2015 are currently with the Secretary Military Board.” PDP also called its first witness in the person of the chairman of Reformed All Progressives Congress (rAPC), Engr Buba Galadima. Galadima, who said he has known Buhari since the 1960s and worked with him since his presidential campaigns in 2003, said he teamed up with Atiku and PDP to provide “a good, God-fearing, and educated leader” to Nigerians. Earlier, other witnesses, Obi Peter, Adejuyitan Ebenezar Olalekan and Adegokun Afeez Adeoye, who served as Registration Area Technician and polling officers for INEC, testified that they transmitted results from the card reader to INEC central server. But they could not present the code with which they transmitted the results. Pres tribunal: Atiku, PDP open case, tender result sheets for Niger, Yobe Atiku, PDP open case, tender result sheets for Niger, Yobe Atiku, PDP tender result sheets from 8 states Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin