Speaker of Ogun State House of Assembly Olakunle Oluomo says some state lawmakers blocked governors by deploying some tricks to secure President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to the Constitution Fourth Alteration Bill. The bill granted financial autonomy and independence to the Houses of Assembly and the Judiciary. Daily Trust recalled that Buhari signed the bill in June last year and subsequently set up a panel to ensure the workability of the amendment. Oluomo said the development had liberated the state legislatures which usually went cap in hand to get governors’ approval for their allowances and salaries monthly. The speaker blamed the practice on what he called “anomaly in Nigeria’s Constitution.” He was speaking in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, at a strategic legislative luncheon organised by the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR). It had as theme ‘Legislative Agenda for Good Governance’. The activist-turned lawmaker said governors had “emasculated” legislators and even ensured that previous attempts to amend the constitution and give independence to the legislature failed. The speaker, however, hinted that he, alongside some fellow legislators from other states, connived and blocked the Governors’ Forum to ensure that Buhari signed the alteration bill last year. According to him, if state governors were aware of Buhari’s plan to sign the bill into law, they would have blocked it. “When Buhari wanted to sign the bill into law, we played some magomago (trick) with the governors. We ensured that the Governors’ Forum was not informed that the president was going to sign the bill into law. “So, we connived. I won’t mention names. Myself, somebody from Enugu, others from Katsina and Plateau states. We went, overnight, to the presidency and met a friend who was a legislator at the state level. We told him ‘go and find a formula for us to get the bill assented before the Governors’ Forum knows,”’ he said. According to the Ogun speaker, “So, when they were taking the bill for Buhari’s assent, the governors were not aware. If they were aware, they would have used it as one of the baits for him (Buhari) to get second term in office. “When they heard it has been signed into law, they went haywire. They said it would not work and it has not worked up till today,” Oluomo said. The speaker hoped Buhari would issue an Executive Order on the implementation of the autonomy, saying with that, legislators would demonstrate that “We’re not docile. We are not foolish.” “The moment that’s done, you will see revolution. Legislators at the state level are not docile. They are not foolish. The truth of the matter is ‘you provide food for the dog, and you hold a stick.’ How would you allow the dog to eat the food? The dog will be afraid to eat the food. That’s why legislators have not been unable to perform. We have so many people like me but when you get there (State Assembly), you will be humbled,” he said.  Revolution awaits Governors at State Assemblies - Ogun Speaker Ogun Assembly plans to translate laws to local languages APC lawmakers sit in Ado Ekiti, suspend PDP members Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin