A 19-year-old suspected leader of Aiye cult gang, Ifeoluwa Dodo, has been arrested over his alleged involvement in several killings in Bariga area of Lagos. The suspect is among seven others arrested at the weekend by policemen attached to “Operation Crush” of the State Police command. It was learnt that, among those allegedly killed by Ifeoluwa, was one Ojo Taiwo. It was learnt that Ifeoluwa, had led his gang in February 2019, to an area in Bariga where he purportedly murdered the said Ojo Taiwo. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkanam, said since the gruesome murder of Ojo, the suspect had been on the police wanted list since he was alleged to have led other gang members to attack the victim. He said that luck ran against the suspect, when at the weekend, at about 8 am, operatives of Operation Crush from Bariga Police Station, arrested him. “Our record shows that Ifeoluwa is a strong member of Aiye confraternity at Odo-Eran Street, Bariga. The suspect has been on the wanted list of the Police for the murder of one Ojo Taiwo in February, 2019 at Bariga. He escaped after leading eight other members of his cult gang to carry out the murder. Five members of his gang were initially arrested and charged to court for murder,” he added. The Lagos State police image maker also said Operatives of Operation Crush from Anti-cultism Unit, acting on a tip-off, arrested one Peter Ejovwoke, 26, who hails from Ughelli North, Delta State, at Ago Hausa Street, Ajeromi, Ajegunle with two Baretta Pistols and three rounds of live ammunition. Not relenting, Elkanam said, operatives arrested one Azeez Ojora Ajayi, aka Alaje, ‘m’, 37, in Apapa with two Beretta pistols and four ammunitions.  Eight cultists in police net over attacks in Lagos Police arrest 39 cultists in Lagos Exploits of slain Lagos cultist, Small Jpron Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin