The Federal Government is responsible for accommodating pension accrued right liabilities in the budget for retired workers of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Speaking on the on-going verification and enrolment exercise for FG treasury-funded workers due for retirement in 2020, the Head of Corporate Communications Department of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), Peter Aghahowa, said the commission would usually compile such liability and forward it to the FG for inclusion in the budget. Findings show that the Federal Government owes its retirees about one year of unpaid accrued rights and this is about to balloon further with additional prospective retirees currently being verified and enrolled. Accrued rights is a term used to describe what the government owes its workers who have been in service before the commencement of the Pension Reform Act, 2004 (Reviewed in 2014). “The liability, once we have determined it, would be transmitted to the Federal Government so that adequate budgetary provision would be made. In terms of budgetary provision, it is entirely up to the Federal Government. Once we provide the information for the Federal Government, the funding would have to be provided in next year’s budget. So, that is all outside PenCom,” he said. Daily Trust monitored the verification and enrolment exercise taking place in Abuja and major cities across Nigeria for prospective retirees from Federal Government MDAs. It was observed that Pension Desk Officers in various MDAs participated in the exercise as they assisted PenCom staff to identify the prospective retirees and scrutinise their documents.  How budget cuts affect prompt payment of retirees FG begins enrolment for 2020 retirees PenCom explains delay in gratuity payment Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin