A former international, Abubakar Balarabe has said one of the problems of the present Super Eagles is that the players are still ignorant of the fact that they are dreaded by their opponents. Speaking to Daily Trust, the former Ranchers Bees striker said often times, the Super Eagles struggle to beat some of the teams that are even afraid of playing against them. He said against Cameroon in the ongoing AFCON, the Lions were afraid but when they discovered that the Super Eagles were not ready to take advantage, they came out to play, scoring two quick goals in the process. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Balarabe said “The problem with the Super Eagles is that they don’t know their worth. They don’t know they are highly rated by their opponents. “Most times our opponents fear us but once they discover that our players are not capitalizing on the respect, they become more confident. “Almost all the leading teams in Africa still fear the Super Eagles. In our last match, the Lions of Cameroon started to play only when they discovered the Eagles were giving them too much respect.” Balarabe, therefore, charged the Super Eagles to make good use of the respect the Bafana Bafana will accord them today. “Against South Africa, I want the Eagles to prove their supremacy once again. The Bafana Bafana who have never found it easy with us will give the Super Eagles maximum respect. “I implore the Super Eagles to score quick goals and then close shop,” he advised. Abd’Allah, Balarabe, Salihu, Babangida:  Why we didn’t play for long in Super Eagles Grudge match as Super Eagles battle Cameroon for AFCON quarter-final ticket Abubakar Balarabe: I am still angry I was dropped from Algiers ’90 Super Eagles squad Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin