The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), yesterday, disclosed that the country loses about $3 billion annually in capital flight to foreign airlines. Executive chairman of the group, Sir Nogie Meggison, attributed this to the absence of Nigerian airlines in the international market. Meggison spoke against the backdrop of the launch of international flight by Air Peace. He called on the Federal Government to support the airline to succeed. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Daily Trust reports that the airline, penultimate Friday, launched a flight to Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) via Sharjah. The launch came after many Nigerian carriers had flown the route and other international routes but failed. Defunct Virgin Nigeria, Arik Air and Med-View were on the Dubai route but they failed. Med-View also did not last long on the London route. The AON chairman said many Nigerian carriers that started international operations and faltered failed because of what he called, “international aero politics.” “Foreign carriers dominate 100% of the Nigerian sky with capital flight of about $3bn,” he said. The chairman commended the Federal Government for its role in Air Peace’s launch of international flight, adding, “it is instructive to note that this next level requires strong government support as Air Peace has become one of the pillars to the building of our nation’s economy.” According to Meggison, the Federal Government must give the carrier all the support it requires to succeed on the route in the face of stiff competition and aero politics which the carrier will face in the near future. He said, “Air Peace has taken a bold step and they should be encouraged by Nigerians. The airline’s maiden flight to Dubai means more jobs for our Nigerian youths; it means jobs for over 600 unemployed Nigerian pilots; it means hope for our various aviation training academies at NCAT, Zaria, International Aviation College, Ilorin and the International Helicopter Flying School, Enugu. “It also means more travel choices for Nigerian travellers at affordable rates; it means more contribution to the Nigerian economy and GDP; it means increased growth for the Nigerian aviation sector; it means the transfer of technology and technical expertise; and it also means a reduction in capital flight from the country by foreign airlines. “Government therefore needs to rally round Air Peace as a proud Nigerian operator and give the airline all the support to succeed.” He added that “the issue of aero politics has been the bane of operators like Bellview that was frustrated out of the India market; Arik Air that was given a distant parking bay in Dubai at the far end of the terminal; Medview who were frustrated out of the London route by sheer regulatory technicalities and so-called safety deficiencies, unfair slot allocation, exorbitant airport charges, levies and fees, and all forms of excuses.” These, he noted, were done to discredit the airlines “as a means of edging them out of the route in order to get rid of the competition the carrier posed to their own local operators on the route and to protect their own.” Air Peace loses N1.2bn to exorbitant charges on West Coast Local operators kick over stoppage of royalties payment by foreign airlines FG signs air pact with UAE as Med-View flags off Dubai flight Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin