As the battle for the November governorship election in Bayelsa State gets hotter, aspirants from leading parties are not leaving any stone unturned. In the past few weeks, there have series of consultations, declarations and lobbying for the top job. Though the feeling race to succeed Governor Seriake Dickson will not be an easy one, political analysts say it may likely be the most difficult election for the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, which is still struggling to recover from the defeat it suffered during the National Assembly elections. The PDP lost a Senate seat, two House of Representatives and four state assembly seats during the last general election. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE There are suggestions that the PDP may go into the governorship election as a disadvantaged party, due to the ongoing cold war between ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and his estranged godson, Governor Seriake Dickson. But the race for who suceeds the governor is crowded with heavyweight aspirants from across party lines. Keniebi Okoko A Harvard trained business man and industrialist. He is well a known person in Bayelsa but not in the political circle, but as one of the illustrious sons of the state who have carved a niche for himself in the business world. Okoko hail from Gbarain-Ekpetiama community of the state, which has never produced a governor. He is coming to the race with an idea of developing the state and creating an enabling atmosphere for business to thrive. According to him, he wants to explore the abundant resources of the state and harness it properly to make it like Singapore. Last week, he became the first to purchase the N21 million   PDP nomination form and have already opened his campaign office along Azikoro road in Yenagoa the state capital. He is believed to be a strong believer and ally of former President Jonathan. Senator Heineken Lokpobiri He is the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture; two time senator and pioneer Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. He appears to be favourable to fly the ticked of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Lokpobiri is a household name in Bayelsa politics, largely because of his achievements as the speaker of the state assembly. He enjoys the grassroots support. It was under Lokpobiri that the present House of Assembly complex was built, and he was able to run an independent legislature from executive influence during his tenure. He is seen as a nightmare for PDP and the incumbent governor. Though Lokpobiri’s ambition has reportedly pitched him against his long-time political ally, former Governor Timipre Sylva who is also interested in the race, indications are that he is not ready to back out from the race. He has repeatedly said he doesn’t have any problem with Sylva, claiming he believes in free and fair primary where the party will pick the best. Senator Emmanuel Paulker Paulker is a founding member of PDP in Bayelsa State, and close ally of former President Jonathan. He was the Commissioner for Lands and Housing in the state, and later got elected as senator in 2007, where he spent 12 years in the National Assembly. Paulker enjoys the support of the people of Bayelsa due to his achievements as commissioner, during which he built laudable projects such as the Mechanic village, ultra-modern Swali Market, the biggest in the state and some housing projects. As senator, Paulker is said to have done well in terms of attracting projects to his zone and empowerment of his constituents. Recently, all non- indigenes living in the state organized a rally calling on the senator to present himself for the governorship position  and promised to support and vote for him during the main election if he is given the PDP ticket. In 2015, Paulker was about wining the PDP ticket before he was disqualified from the contest few weeks to the primary over some flimsy reasons. Yenagoa where Paulker hails from has never produced a governor in the state, despite being the seat of power which attracts greater number of votes after Southern Ijaw. Chief Preye Aganaba An Abuja-based businessman, Chief Aganaba is vying for governorship position under the platform of APC. He is a household name  and also has the muscle and support base to wrestle power from the PDP led government  if given the APC ticket. Recently, a political group, the Kimisese Mass Movement has been rooting for him to run for the top job, saying as a founding member of the party and his overwhelming influence in the state, he will be able defeat whoever the PDP fields as their candidate. Last week, more than 1000 women from the eight local government of the state gathered at his campaign secretariat to pray for his emergence as the APC candidate. He is from Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government area of the state who has never produced a governor. Timi Alaibe A former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Alaibe is from Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of the state. He is very influential in the politics of the state; he is popularly called ‘The Principal.’ But one thing against him is his frequent movement from one party to the other. In 2011, Alaibe left PDP to Labour Party to contest the governorship position. He abandoned it in 2015 for APC but   couldn’t secure its nomination. He once again moved back to PDP late last year. Many Bayelsans consider Alaibe as a good leader who, when given chance, can lead the state well. But his closeness to ex-President Jonathan also opens another conflicting issues with Governor Dickson who is scheming to present somebody from his team. Chief Timipre Sylva A former governor of the state and leader of APC, he is seeking a return to the Creek Haven, Bayelsa government seat of power, where he left over 7 years ago. He is very popular in the politics of the state and greater number of people still love and support him. Sylva brought the idea of Amnesty for Niger Delta militants to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, the idea that paved the way for sustained peace to the entire region. But Sylva will still have the first hurdle to contend with in the person of Senator Lokpobiri. Benson Agadaga Agadaga is a former Commissioner for Information under Jonathan administration as governor of Bayelsa State. He has been in the politics of the state right from its creation. Many believe that he is being sponsored by the ex-president to become the next governor of the state. He enjoys the supports of the people due to his closeness with the masses. He is currently the President of ‘Ogbia Brotherhood,’ a very strong socio-cultural cum political organization for Ogbia people in the state. Other contestants in the race include the current Secretary to Bayelsa Government, Kemela Okara; Architect Reuben Okoya, a former Permanent Secretary; Amb. Godknows Igali; Hon. Fred Agbedi, Dodei Week, Dr Nimibofa Ayawei, Dennis Sami and current House of Representatives member, Prof Steve Azaiki. The contest is getting interesting everyday with more people indicating interest. Jonathan, Dickson in titanic battle to install next Bayelsa governor Bayelsa guber poll: The politics, strategies and power play Bayelsa, Kogi elections: A litmus test for the APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin