The  All Progressives Congress, APC, in Oredo West Constituency, Oredo local government area of Edo State has passed a vote of confidence on the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, as well as vowed to support his second term bid in the 2020 governorship election in the state. Addressing journalists at the weekend in Benin, Oredo West Ward II, an APC leader, Baba Franco, said they were supporting Obaseki due to his developmental stride and good governance in the state. “We are supporting Obaseki because of his performance and say no to godfatherism. For the first time, we have a governor who is not prepared to share the state’s money among party leaders but to  develop the state so that people can stay back home and get gainful employment. This is why many of us are supporting the governor,”. “I believe that the crisis in Edo APC was engineered by somebody who wanted Obaseki to cave in to his demand so that Edo people will be in bondage. “In this crisis, I have not seen politicians arguing that the governor has  not sited a project in their communities. Those people fighting Obaseki now, don’t even need projects in their areas but that money meant for projects should be shared for them,” he alleged. Franco noted that unlike in the past administrations where a part of the state was neglected in terms of project execution, development are spread across the three senatorial districts of the state under Obaseki. He added: “We have resolved to go with Obaseki and we called on all Benin people to unite in support of Obaseki and not to allow an outsider to determine our fate. “Chief John Oyegun was the APC national chairman when Comrade Adams Oshiomole was the governor but he never interfered in the activities of neither the governor nor the APC in the state.” He therefore, called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to intervene in order to save the party from losing the state as it is the only APC state in the South-South region. Also speaking,  the Vice Chairman of APC Oredo West Ward II,  Benida Ogiefa, said Oshiomole saw Obaseki as a man who will continue his legacy of development and  he had not fall short of that as well as the people’s expectations. “Obaseki is working and they want him out because he is not sharing money. Once God has spoken, nobody can change it. God has said Obaseki will serve eight years and we are solidly behind him,” she said. Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Edo 2020: Issues as fight over ticket gets messier 2020 guber poll: Oredo APC adopts Obaseki as sole candidate Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin