President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said he would not name anybody as his successor. Buhari, who was sworn in for a second term on May 29, this year, stated this when he hosted members of the Progressives in Academics (Pro-Acad) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The president was asked by the group to start grooming a youth as his successor. But the president said those who want to succeed him should try as much as he did. The president said: “Succession, to me this is very funny; because if I did find anybody I will create more problems for him or her. Let those who want to be president try as much as I did. “I believe those who are interested need to know that I tried three times and the fourth time I thank God and technology, PVC. “So, I think you have more to do as intellectuals to make sure you correct Nigeria’s intellectual development, it is very important for the next generation. “A lot of our young people are taking things for granted. Imagine to contest elections three times and ending up in the Supreme Court, it takes a lot of conviction and hard work. But people take things for granted,” he said On education, Buhari said in the last four years, he has injected over N1 trillion into education through the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) and needs assessment interventions. “We also released N25bn to public universities to pay earned academic allowances to lecturers. Of course, you are all aware of the rot we uncovered at JAMB and many other institutions. “Our home grown school feeding programme covering more than ten million children coupled with our social investment initiative has encouraged many parents to send their children to school and also pay for more teachers in classrooms,” he said. Earlier in his address, the Convener of Pro-Acad, Dr. Bolariwa Bolaji, said there was need to accredit secondary and primary schools in the country. He urged the president to take steps to address the challenge of Almajiri in the country. He further urged the President to revoke oil well licenses issued to individuals. I’ve no plan to install a successor in 2023, says President Buhari No division in Buhari support groups - Abu Ibrahim APC must field Buhari if it’s serious about 2015 - Vice chairman Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin