ActionAid Nigeria (AAN) has expressed disappointment on the number of women in the ministerial list submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari to the National Assembly. The organisation’s Country Director, Ms. Ene Obi, yesterday, said the list was lopsided and short of meeting the 35 per cent Affirmative Action. “ActionAid Nigeria is dismayed that despite the promise by the ruling All Peoples Congress (APC) party, through Mr. President, that the party is committed to inclusive governance, especially ensuring that women and young people will not be excluded in decision making spaces, only seven women made the list out of the 43 nominees; this 16.6 per cent accorded to women is grossly unrepresentative and inadequate. “It is unbelievable that rather than progressing, Nigeria is retrogressing in delivering its commitment on inclusive governance. Women constitute about 50 per cent of Nigeria’s population, and we believe that Nigeria has qualified women who can contribute to the national development of the country,” Obi said. She, therefore, urged President Buhari to retract the list and make it inclusive by nominating more women, youths and Persons Living with Disability (PWD), saying it was not too late to do the right thing and keep to the promise made to the Nigerian citizens. “Additionally, Mr. President should further include women, youths and PWDs in other positions such as directors of boards and institutions and heads of departments and agencies. We are reminding the president that the National Gender Policy is in force and it should be complied with, not just in letter, but in practice,” she said. Ministerial list: ActionAid Nigeria bemoans exclusion of women, youths 35% women participation: Is Jonathan reneging on his promise? ActionAid decries poor women participation in politics Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin