The Special Presidential Investigation Panel on Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) says it has uncovered over N3bn in several accounts belonging to two senior civil servants. The civil servants, according to the panel, are Dr Goody Nnadi, the General Manager, Corporate Services, and Aisha F. Usman, the General Manager, Operations, both with the Petroleum Equalization Fund (PEF). The chairman of the panel, Okoi Obono-Obla, in a press conference yesterday, revealed that findings of a petition received against Nnadi revealed that he (Nnadi) operates corporate accounts with Galbani and Greatwood Hotels, Owerri, Imo State. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Obono-Obla said findings revealed that the total inflow of monies into the accounts of Nnadi from 2011 till date “amounts to N2.2billion, $302,964, €11,000 Euro and £2,000 pounds sterling.” “That both individuals and oil companies deposited money alleged to be gratification/bribe to the personal and corporate account of the suspect in order to get allocation of either PMS, AGO and DPK from the NNPC depot,” he said. He added that Nnadi was questioned and released on bail and is presently undergoing Senior Executive Course (SEC 41, 2019) at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Plateau State. Obono-Obla added that during investigation, “The suspect admitted helping some of the oil companies to get allocation from NNPC and that was the reason they paid money into his accounts.” He also revealed that during a search on Nnadi’s house, “two documents of landed property, $1,000 and €200 Euros were recovered.” In the case of Aisha Usman, the General Manager in charge of Operations for PEF, Obono-Obla said findings revealed that she operates nine accounts with one bank alone with a total inflow of N1.4bn. He said it was discovered that some corporate organisations paid the money into her account. He said, while charges would soon be filed against Nnadi and Usman, the panel has extended invitations to other management staff of PEF. FG suspends Obla as property recovery panel chairman ...FG justifies cancellation Prosecution office to take over Abuja empty houses, sell them - Obono-Obla Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin