Some APC stakeholders in Kogi State, yesterday, criticised President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party over what they described as “sorry affairs under Gov. Yahaya Bello.” The stakeholders, under the auspices of Kogi Emancipation Movement (KEM), decried alleged “conspiracy of silence” on the part of the president and the APC NWC amid alleged complaints bordering on non-payment of salaries which had led to some deaths and mis-governance under the Bello-led government. The group, in a statement issued yesterday in Lokoja by its convener, Apostle Eniola Williams, said it was “strange” that Buhari and other leaders of the party at the national and state levels continued to show public support for Bello despite his alleged non-performance and “incompetence.” The group said, “We, therefore, warn that APC will be thoroughly defeated if it fields Gov. Yahaya Bello for the November 16, 2019, governorship poll in the state. “He has done or said nothing to earn his party’s offer of right of first refusal.” The group, therefore, urged President Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Adams Oshiomhole, other APC governors, National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as well as stalwarts from the state such as Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa, Barr. Babatunde Irukera and Folashade Joseph to be wary of allowing the party’s flag going into the hand of an “unpopular candidate” ahead of the forthcoming election. In a similar development, another political group under the aegis of Good Leadership Forum (GLF), has declared its support for the second term bid of Gov. Yahaya Bello. Spokesman of the group, Mallam Abdulrahim Tijani Oguna, disclosed this yesterday after their meeting with stakeholders at Nagazi in Adavi Local Government Area of Kogi State. Mallam Tijjani said Gov. Bello’s effort in tackling security challenges in the state was second to none since the creation of Kogi State. “He has succeeded in putting up strategic measures in combating crime and other social vices by establishing a well-structured intelligence gathering mechanism, created the needed synergy among the security agencies in the state for effective and efficient intelligence sharing,” he said. Kogi: Bello tackles APC group over 2nd term bid Kogi: APC Aspirants’ Forum rejects Yahaya Bello for 2nd term APC group calls for direct primary in Kogi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin