A man who allegedly ate a gecko as Christmas party dare died 10 days later after contracting a salmonella infection. Father-of-three David Dowell, from Brisbane, Australia, allegedly ate a gecko at a Christmas party on December 1. The following day he felt unwell, but attributed this to being hungover. His symptoms worsened, and concerned family members called emergency services. Ten days after he allegedly ate the gecko, the 34-year-old died in ‘absolute agony’, having been diagnosed with a salmonella infection. Six months on, his family have described how David had ‘basically rotted from the inside out’ after contracting the infection. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Speaking with The Sydney Morning Herald, David’s sister Hannah Dowell described her brother as being ‘just a great person and the kids have lost one of the best dads ever’. After being taken to the Mater Hospital, David was diagnosed with a salmonella infection on Tuesday, December 4. His family initially believed the salmonella had been caused by chicken, but then David’s partner, Allira, recalled he had eaten a gecko as a dare while at the party. Describing her brother’s symptoms, Hannah said he became very bloated, to the point where he resembled somebody who is six months pregnant. His urine turned black and his vomit appeared green. After a few days, there was fluid on his lungs. David’s mum Michelle, has claimed fluid leaked from her son’s stomach, telling The Sydney Morning Herald: His testicles were swollen up to grapefruits and there was fluid leaking from them and they [doctors] said that was normal, it was just all of the fluid in his stomach cavity. David died during surgery, after suffering mass organ failure. The family have questions some of the decisions made by Mater Hospital staff, with Hannah stating: “The surgeon basically said that he needed that (surgery) straight away, We also asked why they didn’t give him a catheter and they said they didn’t think of that. “We had to ask for pain relief for David … He was put into a coma because they couldn’t control his pain. We never really got to say goodbye to him. It was like they didn’t really care. The moment he got moved into the intensive care unit, that’s when they got serious. “I want justice for David … or just answers. You don’t ever think anything like this could ever happen to you and then it does”. Mater Hospital have released the following statement, according to The Sydney Morning Herald: “ Mater offers its deepest condolences to the family of Mr David Dowell. Mr Dowell’s case was referred to the Coroner, who determined Mater had provided appropriate care and no further action was required. Mater is unable to comment further on the case due to patient confidentiality”. Culled from unilad.co.uk Food poisoning and how to prevent it How Lagos family saved life of Adamawa IDP Liberia confirms new Ebola case as outbreak spreads Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin