The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) Umaru Ibrahim has advised Nigerians to exercise maximum caution in the adoption of crypto-currencies as their preferred mode of financial transactions. He warned that while various forms of digital currencies currently in operation have their positive and negative attributes, those who patronize them risk losing their savings because the medium is largely unregulated and without  the backing or support from the traditional Central Banks in almost all financial jurisdictions. The NDIC boss made the remarks during the courtesy call by the Board and Management of the Corporation on the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila in his office at the National Assembly Complex, in Abuja a statement from the Corporation said yesterday. Earlier, in her opening remarks, the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation, Mrs. Ronke Sokefun, informed the Speaker that the NDIC remained a critical player in the Nigerian financial safety net that had contributed immensely to the growth and stability of the nation’s financial stability in the 30 years of its operations using best practices. In his response, the Speaker commended NDIC on the visit, describing it as a right step towards fostering harmonious working relationship with agencies in the executive arm of government. On the issue of Crypto currency, he noted that as the entire world currently exploited ways of mainstreaming its use into the global financial landscape, NDIC and other safety-net participants in the country must not be left behind in the adoption of appropriate regulatory framework to deal with the prevalence of crypto currencies in the global financial space.  NDIC warns about risks of trading with Bitcoin, others NDIC trains Ghana deposit protection officials NDIC considers insured deposits payment …Says N1.9 bn still unclaimed by failed banks’ depositors Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin