Two directors and a chief administrative officer of the National Agency For Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASEI) located at Idu Industrial area, Abuja, lost their lives in an auto crash on Abuja-Lokoja road. The deceased directors who were identified as, Mr. Kanat Hassan, director of Administration, Prof. Umar, director of Science and Infrastructure and Mrs. Sotonye Ename, chief administrative officer, died in the crash which occurred last Thursday. A witness said a Toyota bus with registration number LSD 108BJ conveying the deceased rammed into the back of a broken down truck near Gada-Biyu village. He said one of the occupants survived but was taken to the hospital by men of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) who came to the scene. A survivor of the crash, Mrs. Sotonye Ename, who is a staff of the agency while speaking to our reporter at Abaji general hospital where she was receiving treatment, said she dozed off while inside the bus, saying all she heard was a loud sound then she found herself in the hospital. She said the dead accident victims were her bosses and  they boarded a chartered bus from Akure, Ondo state coming to Abuja. She said two directors and the Chief administrative officer left Abuja last Tuesday by flight to join her at Ilesha,Osun state where they went to conduct promotion examination in one of the institutes. “Actually the two directors and the chief administrative officer came from Abuja on flight to meet me at Ilesha. And after we finished conducting the promotion examination, we decided to go to Akure to chatter a bus to convey us to Abuja, when the accident happened,” she said. When contacted, the Abaji unit commander of the FRSC, ACC Olasupo Esuruoso, confirmed the accident, saying the remains of the two directors and the chief administrative officer had been taken to University of Abuja Teaching Hospital,  Gwagwalada, by relations of the victims He said one of the injured victims inside the bus was receiving treatment at the same hospital, even as he attributed the accident to speed limit violation and loss of control.  Man, wife killed in auto crash at Sabon-Gari INEC mourns as 2 officials die in Kogi road crash 3 journalists killed in Oshiomhole’s convoy crash Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin