Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) on Wednesday said there was never a time its governors and leaders declared war against the Fulani herdsmen from the North whom they said have lived with them for many years. The group expressed shock over a statement credited to the Chairman of Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF), Prof. Ango Abdullahi, that the Fulani herdsmen should return home if they are no longer safe in the South. Abdullahi alongside the Coalition of Northern Groups had asked the Fulani herders to return to the North if their safety can no longer be guaranteed. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE But the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders comprising Chief Edwin Clark; Chief Ayo Adebanjo (Afenifere) Chief Nnia Nwodo (President General, Ohaneze Ndi-Igbo) and Dr. Pogu Bitrus (President General, Middle Belt Forum) said they were saddened by the statement created to Prof. Ango Abdullahi and the Coalition of Northern Groups. They said they were shocked that Prof. Abdullahi who is co-Chairman of Nigerian Leaders and Elders’ Forum could join the call for the Fulani herders to quit the South. In a statement made available to our correspondent, the SBMLF said the time calls for sober reflection and regretted that Prof. Abdullahi chose “to further inflame passion by making reckless and unguarded statements on the state of affairs.” The forum reiterated that the Southern and Middle Belt leaders were not against the Fulani herdsmen as there are a large number of them living with them and doing legitimate businesses in their communities. They called on President Muhammadu Buhari “to put a stop to the divisive actions of Prof. Ango Abdullahi and his youths because it will be very dangerous for us to return to circumstances that created the Civil War” Dogara assures regional leaders on restructuring Southern, Middle Belt forum opposes herdsmen Radio Southern, Middle Belt leaders kick against herdsmen radio Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin