A research has shown that 40 vehicle assembly plants operating in the country in the last five years churned out 15,000 units of vehicles from cumulative capacity of 450,000 vehicles. The research also showed that from an average cumulative annual capacity of 90,000 vehicles, the annual output for all the plants are 375 vehicles. An automotive expert, Dr. Oscar Odiboh presented the research, saying the non-passage of the automotive bill by successive governments has stifled the performance of local vehicle assemblers with the plant owners losing N2.5tr in investment. He reeled out the figures in his paper titled: “Zero Patronage, Zero Tariff and the Redefinition of Patriotism by Nigeria’s Automobile Industry” at the 2019 Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) Training Workshop held in Lagos at the weekend. Daily Trust reports that President Muhammadu Buhari recently declined assent to the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill known as Auto Policy Bill. It was the second term the Bill would suffer setbacks from successive governments. The latest Bill rejected by Buhari has a five-year timeline (2013-2018) which has elapsed. Industry players and auto dealers say without the Auto Policy Bill which serves as a legal bulwark for prospective investors, the move to attract Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) into the country may remain a pipe-dream. The result of this lack of policy, according to experts, could be gleaned from the dismal performance of auto assembly plants in the last five years as, according to Odiboh’s research, they could only produce 375 vehicles per annum from installed capacity of 90,000. The Nigeria Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) also confirmed the dismal performance of the sector. In an update on the status of the auto policy posted on its website, it said, “54 companies have been registered for assembly, 28 of these companies are currently assembling. A total installed capacity of 408,870 Units and a total actual production of 8,473 Units have been achieved so far.” Going by the rejection of the auto policy for the second time, Odiboh advised the Federal Government to drop the policy since it is not working. The rebirth of Volkswagen in Nigeria Automotive industry: Transformation unfolds in Nigeria Apprehension as govt proposes ban on auto parts import Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin