Barely four days after a man identified as Ekene was abducted, three other persons have been kidnapped by gunmen in Nuku community of Abaji Area Council. A resident of the community who preferred anonymity said the incident happened on Wednesday around 11:30pm when gunmen invaded the community and whisked away three persons. He said Amos Tukura and Micah Tukura, younger brothers of a former secretary of the council, Sule Tukura, were abducted alongside Shekwolo Anyinu, a retired staff of the FCT Mass Transit Agency. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE According to him, the gunmen came to the town through a bush path and forced the doors to the victims’ houses open and whisked them away. Worried by the kidnappings, the Ona of Abaji and chairman of FCT Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, yesterday, summoned all tribal chiefs to his palace. Alhaji Yunusa, while addressing the chiefs, expressed concern over the spate of kidnapping, noting that the insecurity in the council has forced farmers to abandon farming. He called on all village chiefs and other tribal chiefs in the area to ensure they reported any person they are suspicious about to the relevant security agents in the area. “Today, farming activities have seriously reduced as our farmers are now afraid to go to their farms because of abduction. I want to urge all the village and other tribal chiefs to ensure they support our security agents by giving useful information to them about any suspicious person,” he said. Also speaking, the Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, represented by secretary of the council, Alhaji Kamal Adamu Shuaibu, urged the chiefs to sit up and ensure that they support security agents by giving them information that will help in checkmating kidnapping in the area. The chairman also called on parents to keep their eyes on their children to know the kind of friends they keep, warning that any of the natives caught having links with kidnappers would face the wrath of the law. “I am saying it categorically in this palace that the  palace or the area council will not go and bail anybody that is arrested over having link with kidnappers. Therefore, parents should monitor their children because these reported cases of kidnapping are seriously drawing Abaji backward, ” he said. Gunmen abduct district head in Abaji 32 royal fathers kidnapped in 4 years How gunmen killed herder, abducted housewife  at Gulida Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin