Indigenous operators in the Nigerian mining sector are not succeeding much in the mining profession due to low technical capacity, financial and regulatory issues, a mining consultant, Mr Adeyemo Titilope has said. Mr Titilope who works for Geocardinal Engineering Services Limited during a briefing in Abuja, said most of the indigenous operators lack the requisite technical capacity to excel. Besides, he said, the regulatory environment is so weak to ensure effective compliance with the existing laws guiding operators in the country’s mining industry. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The conflict between the federal and state governments in the management of mineral resources in the country, he said, has resulted in double taxation, which is affecting growth. Mr Titilope, who also consults for some of the state governments on mining issues, said most operators in Nigeria lack the technical know-how to make the sector work. For the sector to grow, he said government needs to enhance the capacity of small-scale and artisanal miners as well as government agencies in charge of monitoring the mining industry, by training them on industry best practices. Although he said inadequate data in the mining sector was hampering development, Mr Titilope said, “With the mapping by the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency, there are bankable data available for prospective investors to present to banks for loans to finance mining activities. What is left is for the government to create a framework to enhance transparency and block loopholes in the industry,” he said. ‘Mining can favourably compete with the oil sector’ Solid minerals: Would Buhari, Fayemi get it right in 2016? page 22 analysis business Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin