Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State yesterday assured the people of Potiskum Local Government area that he will fulfil all the pledges he made to them during the electioneering campaigns. In his first Townhall meeting since he became governor, Buni said that there will be practical benefits for the people’s role in ensuring that the ruling APC solidified its hold on power by clinching the only two national assembly seats that the PDP had from 2015. The governor said that one of the key issues he promised the people was to revamp the education sector and provide quality education to the children of the state, saying he had already declared a state of emergency in the sector, convened an education summit and tasked experts to determine the extent of problems in the sector and how to go about addressing them. “Potiskum is a town with a huge population and require so much to be done in the education sector. But I don’t want to jump the gun. I will await the result of the education summit committee work and their recommendations on how we can revive and revitalise education,” the governor said. He added that based on his pledge to the people of Potiskum as the largest commercial town in the state, his administration will soon embark on the construction of a Trailer Park and a Mechanic’s Village in the town. “Potiskum’s market is well known not just in Nigeria but throughout West Africa. The trailer business is very big. We want to make sure that there is a place especially dedicated to parking them in an orderly and more beneficial way and another place dedicated to repairing and maintaining them. This will create more jobs for our youths,” he said. The governor added that the Nigeria Shippers’ Council, where he was a board chairman before his election as governor, will also construct a trailer park in Potiskum and that they had already acquired a plot of land for the purpose. The chairman of Potiskum Local Government Council, Alhaji Salisu Mukhtari and chairman of the town’s stakeholders’ forum, Alhaji Muqaddasu Ayuba told the governor that with the steps he took so far to move the state forward, they were convinced that he will fulfil all the promises he made to the people. Yobe gov unveils educational agenda, harps on school infrastructure Yobe gov’ship:  APC chieftains, groups urge aspirants to support Buni Yobe moves to implement state of emergency on education Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin