Members of the Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs, yesterday, met President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, demanding for his intervention to resolve the feud between Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki. Led by Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, the traditional rulers also requested two ministerial slots from the president in his next cabinet. Daily Trust reports that the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar defeated Buhari in the February presidential elections in Edo State. Atiku polled 275,691 while Buhari got 267,842 votes. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The feud between the APC national chairman and Obaseki had ballooned in recent weeks. The monarchs said: “Mr President, we as traditional rulers in Edo State are concerned about the crisis between Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the All Progressives Congress National Chairman and his Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and Edo State House of Assembly. “If this crisis is not resolved now with immediate effect, it may jeopardize the progress of the state. “On behalf of the good people of Edo State, we kindly appeal to Mr. President to use your good offices to intervene and stop this crisis,” the monarchs said. They said they decided to intervene on the matter in the interest of the state. “Personally, even though I do not like to interfere in inter-party or intra-party matters, and always maintain that the Benin Crown is non-partisan, it is, however, difficult to turn a blind eye because if this crisis is not brought under control, it is likely to jeopardize the welfare of the masses,” the oba said. He said with the support of members of the council, he would broker peace between the warring parties by inviting Obaseki and Oshiomhole to a meeting. In requesting for two ministerial slots, the monarch urged the president to consider the state in view of the fact that it was the only APC state in the South South. Obaseki can’t install Edo Assembly leaders — Members elect Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Oyegun to Oshiomhole: You are distracting Obaseki Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin