Nigeria will soon deploy more security equipment on its waterways to check activities of criminals, especially pirates and robbers who attack vessels within Nigerian maritime domain. The equipment, which has already been procured, will be deployed as soon as training is completed by the Nigerian Navy and other security personnel who will use them. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Transportation, Mr Sabiu Zakari, disclosed this in Abuja when the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council, Mr. Hassan Bello, led a delegation from Maersk Shipping Company on a courtesy call on the ministry. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said the effective security of Nigerian waters is critical to the maritime economy of the country. According to him, the deployment of the equipment will help in reducing the insurance premium paid on ships coming into Nigeria. The permanent secretary also revealed that the anti-piracy law recently signed by the Federal Government will help in the ease of doing business in Nigeria. Earlier, the ES Shippers Council, Mr. Hasan Bello, had told the permanent secretary that the visit of the delegation was to foster better business relations between Maersk and government. The managing director, Maersk Shipping Company, Mr Gildas Tohouo, who was part of the delegation, told the permanent secretary that they were at the ministry to look into the ease of doing business in Nigeria, the challenges and opportunities; safety concerns on Nigerian waterways and ways of working together to improve business relations.  NIMASA to send anti-piracy bill to National Assembly soon - DG Upshots of 15th int’l maritime seminar for judges Nigeria tells US investors: Our waters for safer now Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin