The National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says `Nsukka pepper’, a popular local pepper spice, has pushed the Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises (MSMEs) seasoning registration in South-East. Mr Venatius Ihekire, NAFDAC’s Assistant Director, Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Monday. NAN reports that yellowish or orange-coloured pepper mostly grown in Nsukka, Enugu State, add flavour to both local and national delicacies especially stew and soups. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Many cuisines that prepare grilled meat and fish in the South East cannot do without the strong aroma of Nsukka pepper. It can also be ideal for food garnishing in restaurants and hotels, which gives food shades of colours that make it irresistible to the eyes. Ihekire said within the past 12 months, the agency in the zone had registered at least nine seasoning MSME products that had to do with either dry or fresh Nsukka pepper spices. According to him, five MSMEs seasoning products containing Nsukka pepper from Abia have been registered; three registered from Enugu State (from Nsukka axis of the state) and one more registration from Imo State. “They actually do not call it Nsukka-pepper during their registration, but it comes in form of spices and seasonings we are talking about. “However, we know that these things are from a nearby place where they get them in large quantities. At times some of them will even open up and tell you that this registered product is from Nsukka pepper. “We encourage their spirit of enterprise and NAFDAC is very happy about the development. Before the Federal Government came with the Ease of Doing Business Initiative, which NAFDAC is a lead implementing agency, no single spice or seasoning product was registered in the South East. (NAN)  NAFDAC reduces registration timeline for MSMEs regulated products More reactions trail Nnamani’s defection to APC NAFDAC slashes SMEs registration charges by 50 per cent Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin