For the first time since the return to civil rule in 1999, the House of Representatives is creating an independent standing committee on ecological funds, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said yesterday. Gbajabiamila, who stated this in Abuja while receiving the immediate past Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said the need for “such a fund, as well as a well-equipped library,” are inevitable. He said a functional legislative library with internet facilities would be in line with his pledged reforms, saying the SGF should collaborate with the lawmakers to achieve the legislative agenda of the 9th House of Representatives. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYMDROM DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE According to him, such collaboration would also cover the aspects of budgets and the budgeting process to enable the two arms of government to be on the same page. “For the very first time, this 9th House is going to create a standing committee on ecological funds for obvious reasons. “You may also wish to know that, much as we pride ourselves as the giant of Africa, this House doesn’t have a functional library. We only have a small collection back there.‎ But we need an ICT powered library with internet facilities. “For instance, when we resume plenary tomorrow, one of the reforms would have been in place. The chambers are now ICT compliant, together with software with face recognition technology,” the speaker said. In his response, the former SGF said the courtesy call was an opportunity to intimate with‎ the newly inaugurated House, which he said, remained an “integral part of the government, with its vested powers to make laws for the good of the people.” He described the relationship between the executive and legislative arms of government as symbiotic and ‎mutually beneficial, especially on government’s tripod agenda of anti-graft fight, security and economic diversification. “Let me say that whatever we do as a government in the fight against corruption, insecurity and economic diversification, we require a legislative framework from the legislature to facilitate and accelerate the process. “Although we bring budget estimates to the National Assembly, the real powers of appropriation are vested with the lawmakers, hence our relationship is symbiotic and mutually beneficial. We will partner with you to ensure your constituents don’t regret voting you,” the SGF said. Mustapha was accompanied on the visit by the two Senior Special Assistants to the President on the Senate and the House of Representatives, Senator Ita Enang and El Yakub, respectively. 9th NASS: Why Gbajabiamila/Wase should lead Reps 9th Assembly: Leadership we can trust Setting agenda for the Gbajabiamila, Wase Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin