A suspected fake medical doctor, Aliyu Ya’u, has boasted of having carried out countless and successful surgeries on patients. He made the disclosure while speaking with newsmen when he was paraded by the Kaduna State Command of the Nigeria Police for allegedly killing a patient. Ya’u, who was paraded at the Command’s headquarters, was said to have performed a hernia surgery on a patient (name withheld) who eventually died. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The Command spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo said, Ya’u, was arrested for culpable homicide and impersonation. “Ya’u is not a medical doctor, but he admitted and carried out medical surgery on unsuspecting patients. He has confessed to carrying out hernia surgery on a patient who died in the process,” Sabo said. However, the suspect rejected the charge insisting that he is not a fake doctor. “I am not a fake doctor. I studied at College of Health Technology, Pambegua, Lere Local Government area of Kaduna State. I operate a clinic in the village and I have carried out uncountable surgeries successfully. “All the patients I have operated in the past survived and nobody died. If anyone of them had died before, you would have heard. So, this one is just God’s wish. “The patient came to my clinic and I discovered that he was suffering from hernia. Then, I admitted him and performed the surgery, removed the hernia. Then, when I discovered he was not responding to treatment, I referred him to another hospital, where he later died and that is why I was arrested,” he said. Quack surgeon kills15 patients in Adamawa How quack doctor performed over 500 surgeries FMC begins spinal cord surgery in Makurdi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin