A group under the auspices of the Edo Youth Vanguard has urged the House of Representatives and the leadership of the APC to either be “impartial in its intervention in the contrived impasse in the state House of Assembly or incur the wrath of the youth.” In a statement issued yesterday by its president, Nosakhare Oseghale, the group questioned what it called the lower legislative chamber’s “ill-conceived directive” that Governor Godwin Obaseki should issue a new proclamation to the assembly for proper constitution, while directing the Inspector- General of Police and the Director-General of the Department of State Service to shut down the Assembly. The group stated, “We are surprised and shocked that the House of Representatives seems to have abdicated its primary responsibility to represent the common and collective interests of the citizens through the enactment of laws for the peace, order and good governance of the federation, among other equally important legislative duties. “In a democracy, as practised in Nigeria, the legislature exists as an independent institution, which deepens democracy and ultimately strengthens the polity. Shirking or abdicating these all-important responsibilities on the altar of parochial and partisan and political interests imperils democracy, and that comes with devastating consequences.” According to the statement, “This is why the stance of the House of Representatives on the Edo State House of Assembly issue raises not only eyebrows; it calls for deeper scrutiny into what inspired the misguided decision. Who are their sponsors? Are they acting in our interest or the interest of their paymasters?” the group asked. The youth group described as “ironic” the House of Representatives’ position on the issue, saying, constitutionally, to make such an order on a state House of Assembly required a joint resolution with the Senate. “Until then, any such directive is an exercise in illegality,” the  group maintained. House of Reps lack constitutional powers to shut down Edo Assembly— Obaseki Edo: Youths protest closure of assembly The Edo 7th Assembly: Legal Matters Arising Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin