The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in Katsina State, Salisu Yusuf Maijigiri, yesterday testified that his party won the February 23 presidential election in the state. Maijigiri who was testifying at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal stated that the agents deployed across the 4,902 polling units in the state collated a total of 905,000 votes for the party, while the APC allegedly scored 872,000. Yusuf said the collated result did not agree with the figure as announced by INEC, which said APC scored 1,555,633 votes while PDP allegedly scored 160, 207. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He, however added that, “this is our own compilation, not from the server or the official figures announced by INEC.” He said the result by INEC were “allocated figures and not the actual figures at the election.” Each of the defence lawyers, Yunus Ustaz Usman (SAN), Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) questioned the witness on whether he had listened to the president made a broadcast in English Language especially as Head of State in 1983. He said although he was in class three at secondary school then, he did not listen to the broadcast as he was in his village. But he admitted listening to General Sani Abacha’s live broadcast upon takeover of government and had some online videos of his broadcasts. Other PDP state chairmen and agents also alleged that the election was marred by irregularities, over voting and non-compliance with the Electoral Act. Also, a PDP local government collation officer in Katsina, Salisu Ali also testified that he was called by party agents that irregularities were going on in many of the units, saying “I went there myself after voting and I saw people voting without accreditation.” But when he was cross examined by INEC’s Yunus Ustaz Usman (SAN); Buhari’s counsel Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and APC’s counsel Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), he admitted that INEC cancelled the unit where it was high. He also admitted under cross examination that none of  the offenders was arrested or prosecuted by security agencies. The state chairman of the PDP in Niger State, Tanko Beji testified that he received a lot of reports of irregularities in various polling units and went round to confirm same. But when he was cross examined by counsels, he admitted that he was not physically present in all the polling units. Also, a PDP local government collation officer, Abubakar Muhammed Wahabi testified that the election on February 23 witnessed some violence and intimidation of voters in Galtimari and Shamaki wards in Bauchi State. But under cross examination  by defence lawyers, he admitted that none of the party agents responsible for the violence was arrested or prosecuted. He also admitted that his written reports to the PDP and INEC concerning the incidents were not attached to his statement on oath before the tribunal. The chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba adjourned the proceeding to July 11 for continuation of hearing. Presidential tribunal: 905,000 votes collated for PDP, 872,000 for APC in Katsina - Witness Votes from ‘Atiku’s server’ excludes other parties Ganduje, Tambuwal, Lalong, Ortom win second term Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin