With the proscription of the Shiite group, Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), any person engaged or associating, in any manner that could advance the activities of the movement, shall be treated as a terrorist, enemy of the state, and a subversive element, Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu said yesterday. The police chief added that culprits shall be brought to justice within the context of the Terrorism Act. IGP Adamu made this known yesterday in Abuja during the opening session of the monthly meeting with senior police officers at the Force Headquarters. Daily Trust reports that following a judicial pronouncement by a Federal High Court in Abuja, on 26th July, the Federal Government classified the IMN as a terrorist group and proscribed the Zakzaky-led movement. “The Zakzaky-led Shiite Islamic Movement in Nigeria which does not recognize nor accept the Constitution and Government of the Federation is the sole organization that has been classified as a terrorist organization and proscribed,” he said. He also solicited the support of members of the public in the provision of information that will aid in the identification of the locations of the IMN members and their mentors as well as in working with the police in apprehending and bringing them to justice. “For purpose of clarification, Nigeria is a secular State with constitution provisions guaranteeing the freedom to practice our faiths. This, however, must be exercised in a manner that will not threaten our national security,” Adamu said. He noted that “it is to be emphasized that while all adherents of the Shiite Sect in Nigeria remain free to continue to practice their faith and shall be guaranteed adequate security to so do as the Judicial Order does not stop them.” He said the activities of IMN constitute glaring defiance and rebellion against the Nigerian State, calculated efforts to plunge the nation into an ethno-religious war, intimidation of citizens and security agents. He said, “Their activities also clearly and consistently negate Section 1(2)(A)&(B) of the Terrorism (Prevention) (Amendment) Act 2013  and Section 2(1)(A)(B)(C) of the Terrorism (Prevention) (Amendment) Act of 2013 and hence, justify their proscription in overriding national security interest.” He noted that, “the activities of the IMN has over time evolved to constitute a grave threat to national security, law and order, socio-religious harmony, peace, good governance and the sovereign integrity of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” He said members of the IMN have engaged in extreme radicalism, series of terror-related activities, violence and other unlawful activities which are inimical to the national security interest. He said their illegal activities include, “Pledging allegiance to foreign countries from where they are enjoying political, financial and training support with the aim of advancing their destabilizing intents within Nigeria.” He said those involved in unauthorized blocking of public highways, setting up illegal roadblocks, the imposition of illegal curfews and checkpoints, raids on security assets and prevention of arrest of their members. He also accused them of “Invasion of court premises to abort legal proceedings involving IMN members, refusal to submit to ordinary security checks and attacks on security agents which led to the death of several Nigerians. “Setting up of a para-military guard known as ‘HURRAS’ through which IMN has been terrorizing local residents. “They have also instituted unregistered security outfits and performed paramilitary ceremonies, hoisting of flags, combat exercises, parades and inspection by the IMN leader reminiscent of State authority; “Provocative preaching and hate speeches aimed at inciting members against non-members while working towards its agenda of creating an Islamic State in Nigeria and challenging the legitimacy of the Federal Government in favour of Islamic government. “Non-recognition of the Constitution of the Federal republic of Nigeria, non-recognition of State Authority, non-recognition of our democratic values and disrespect for our judicial processes,” the IGP stated. Security experts react A former Director of the Department of State Services (DSS), Mike Ejiofor, said the government should continue to dialogue with members of the proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) “to find political solutions to the problem.” He warned that if they go underground as the case with the Boko Haram, the government may not have anybody to talk to. He said there must be a clear distinction between the IMN and Shiites, which is a worldwide ideology. He also said banning the IMN and declaring them a terrorist group may attract international condemnation. The chairman ASIS, Abuja Chapter, Kabir Adamu said, “the Federal Government has used one of the tools at its disposal to tackle an issue that has lingered and refused to go away, to that extent I think it’s a good development.” “Leaving the situations as it were is unacceptable,” he added. Also speaking to Daily Trust, Okechukwu Nwanguma, the Executive Director, Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Center (RULAAC), said declaring the Shiites terrorists is counterproductive. He said, “It is not the appropriate response to the problem at hand- which is the government’s contempt for the rule of law and the authority of the courts. “Government should comply with the order of courts and release Zakzaky and his wife and bring to account, all those responsible for mass atrocities.” He said only justice can guarantee peace, adding that peace cannot be decreed or enforced no matter the amount of violence or force of arms. Nigeria can’t afford another B/Haram – Shia Secretary-General of Al-Thaqalayn Cultural Foundation, a Shia socio-cultural organization, Sheikh Hamzah Lawal has expressed concern over the possibility of the Sheikh Ibrahim Zakzaky-led Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) degenerating into another version of the Boko Haram insurgency. Addressing a press conference to clear the air on the misconception of Shi’ism and activities of the IMN yesterday in Kaduna, Sheikh Hamzah decried that the country had been battling with Boko Haram insurgency for 10 years, adding, “We do not want a start of another one in the guise or name of Shi’ism.” He urged the Federal Government and security agencies to contact all stakeholders explore all tactics and angles with a view to addressing the problem and bring it to an end. He also asked the Kaduna State Government to withdraw the case it filed against Zakzaky saying, “It could help in restoring peace in Kaduna State and in the nation at large which is why it is purely on that premise that we are making this call.” On what will happen to Zakzaky after he is released, he said: “It should be part of the overall reconciliation process, there has to be a holistic and comprehensive process of reintegration, rehabilitation and reconciliation, where he will reside after his release and all that should be a subject for very serious and thorough research.” Nobody can stop our religious processions-IMN Lawyer to the IMN, Haruna Magashi says the sect will go to court to oppose the proscription order because they were not given right to fair hearing in the proceeding. “Therefore, we have a way either for the court to hear motion on notice, that is both the side of the government and the movement; and the movement can appeal that order to the Court of Appeal. The order is appealable so the movement will appeal and present the facts against all the presentations made in the order of the applicant,” he said. Spokesman of the Academic Forum of IMN, Abdullahi Musa whether the Federal Government should first obey the court order for the release of their leader, Ibrahim Zakzakky before implementing the order proscribing the sect. “Nobody can stop us from practicing our religion; the ideology of Boko Haram and ISIS that they want to impose on us to hate our neighbours because they are not Muslims, we cannot accept it. That is where they are heading. Do they want us to stop our daily prayers or celebrating Maulud or commemorating Ashura? Let them go ahead and kill all us,” he said.  BREAKING: Police ban Shiite protests, to prosecute IMN members Why court proscribed Shiite group Protest: Police to prosecute 400 Shiites as terrorists Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin