Sokoto State Governor, Alh. Waziri Tambuwal, Hon. Ned Nwoko, Oba Saheed Elegushi have been penned down to receive the Peace Achievers Award from the Peace Ambassador Agency. In a statement signed by the Chairman planning committee, Amb Kingsley Amafibe, the group will be honouring great peace agents, who have done commendably well  in peace building and social justice. Others to receive the Peace Achievers Awards are Abdullahi Bashir Haske, Dr. Takon Samuel Ojong, Hon Charity Vedelago and other prominent figures in Nigeria, Africa and across the globe. The statement also mentioned that Sen Dino Melaye, Anastancia Ndhlowu, Dr. Frank Buyanga Sadiqi, Dr. Smelly Dube, Prince Dr. Onyeka Eze, Hon Hgumah Victor Ihochi, King Ateke Michael Tom, Charles of play network, Hon Kingsley Chima Uju, Chief Johnbosco Onunkwu, his excellency, Amb. Dr. Edd Branson, Mr matthew Obono, Hon Shina Peller, Mr Uche Igbokwe, Isabelle Ayuk, Mr Abisoye Ayoyinka Fagade, Chief Isaac David Balami, Mr. Uche Igbokwe, Brymo, Mr Alex Nwankwo were also going to be honored. According to the organisers, the 8th edition of Peace Achievers International Conference and Awards will hold in Abuja Nigeria, on the 21st of September at Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Nigeria. Amafibe said the award will be recognising and honouring those who have contributed earnestly to nation building, through peace related programs and advocacy. The statement stated that the Peace Achievers International Awards, is one amongst the few peace awards, that celebrates prominent figures from across the world. Buratai, Fowler, Ice Prince others slated for Peace Achievers Awards 2019 Peace Achievers Award: Wike leads Okowa, others in close race for title 25th Anniversary: Minister lauds Fed Poly, Offa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin