President Muhammadu Buhari is set to launch campaign to end open defecation in Nigeria by 2025, Mrs Chizorma Opara, the Acting Coordinator, Clean Nigeria-Use the Toilet Campaign, has said Opara made this known during a two-day training on Revised Open Defecation Free (ODF) Protocol and Validation for National Taskforce Group Sanitation (NTGS) members on Thursday in Keffi, Nasarawa. The workshop is organised by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The revised ODF Protocol assigns the responsibility of validation of certified ODF communities to the NTGS which involves the review of the entire process leading to the certification of the communities. She said that the launching had become necessary if open defecation had to end by 2025 in view of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). According to her, Nigeria has 47 million people defecating in the open and ranks second in the world and the highest in population in Africa practicing open defecation. “In 2018, Mr President on Nov. 8, had declared a state of emergency in the sector and also with emphasis that Nigeria must end open defecation by 2025. “Now Nigeria has already developed a roadmap in 2016 that was launched by the then minister of Water Resources, Mr Suleiman Adamu. “The road map is a strategy document to help the country to end open defecation in Nigeria by 2025. “We actually gave ourselves that target, looking at the SDGs, if we can actually work towards achieving Open Defecation Free (ODF) by 2025, then we would now go through the process which is sustainability period. “This will actually keep everyone working together to see if we would all collectively achieve that,’’ she said. Opara said that in 2011, Nigeria had consistently been second after India and the first in Africa with the largest population of people defecating in the open, and in 2014 India began a process that took millions of their people out of open defecation. She said that the statistics had drastically reduced as high as over four hundred million people who now use toilets. “They have stopped practicing open defecation and the plan for the country is that by Oct. 2, India will be open defecation free, which leaves Nigeria as number one with issues of open defecation,’’ Opara said. The acting coordinator further said that through the efforts of the former minister and some other development partners, some delegates were sent to India to understudy how they did it and what they put in place to achieve the result. She said that following the understudy the Clean Nigeria Use, the Toilet Campaign was created to see how it could work and push the social movement that involves everybody to end open defecation by 2025 in Nigeria. Opara however noted that on May 8, the Federal Executive Council also approved the campaign, following the approval of Mr President to inaugurate the campaign through a national launch, adding that “this is what we are all working towards now’’. “A 70-man planning committee has been inaugurated on May 27, to plan the national launch which we believe is going to be an eye opener that will involve everybody at the different levels of government to be part of this campaign from the onset. “The plan is on, we are looking at it that the launch will be huge, because it is a transformational and social movement. “It will involve everybody and what we need to do is to work together to plan the campaign for it to be a success and to see that Nigeria actually achieves that target of ending open by 2025,’’ she added. Opara said that the training workshop was basically to train NTGS members on validation. Mr Emmanuel Eze, the Deputy Director on Sanitation, Federal Ministry of Water Resources said the training was the second validation training of its kind. (NAN) Osogbo drowning in Open Defecation Open defecation: Nigeria leads in Africa, second in the world Open Defecation: Nigeria 2nd globally Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin