The Chairman of Bwari Area Council, Mr. John Gabaya, has sworn-in members of his cabinet with a call on them to be dedicated to duty. Among those sworn were, Danladi Fajemi, as senior special assistant on political matters to the chairman and Mary Makama, senior special assistant on women affairs. Others were, Emmanuel Ali, as chief protocol officer to the chairman, Bishop Amos Knatubwa, special assistant on Christian affairs, Ahmadu Abdullahi, special assistant on Islamic affairs, Mike E. Igoche, special assistant on security matters and Jamilu Tukur Gwandu, special assistant on inter-party affairs; Ishaya Ali Igu, special assistant on social mobilization and Matthew Iliya, special assistant on entrepreneurship  and creative ventures. Also sworn-in were, Shekwolo Bala, special assistant on youth/students affairs, Allah Nana Dogo, special assistant on maintenance, Ayuba Adamu special assistant on public utilities. Gabaya, urged the newly sworn in cabinet members to bear in their minds that they were not better than those who were not appointed into the cabinet, saying they should ensure they discharged their duties diligently. He said his administration would not hesitate to remove and replace any of the cabinet members that failed to perform in the course of discharging their duties. He thanked the people of the council for coming out en masse to vote for him during the last council election in the area. “I want to tell those of you that made it on this list to bear in their mind that it is not that they are better  than those not appointed, but it is just a question of time,” he said. Speaking on behalf of the appointees, Emmanuel Ali, the chief protocol officer to the chairman, expressed appreciation to him for finding them worthy for the appointment. He assured the chairman that they would work hard to ensure that the present administration moves the council to greater height.  JUST IN: Nasarawa govt appoints SSG, aides Nasarawa Government sets up 31-member transition committee Shehu Shagari: A president at work Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin