The Kano state Police Command has confirmed the arrest of a 35-year-old woman, Aisha Ali who allegedly poured boiling water on her husband, causing serious burns on his private part over suspected plans to take a second wife. The police spokesman, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa who confirmed the arrest yesterday in a press statement said the woman was traced and arrested at Babura, Jigawa state. He said the suspect is currently under interrogation at the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department of the command after which she would be charged to court for prosecution for alleged attempt to commit culpable homicide. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Daily Trust had earlier reported that the suspect allegedly poured boiling water on her husband, Malam Aliyu Ibrahim Fayan-fayan, to show her anger over his plan to marry a second wife. The police confirmed that the victim had suffered severe burns on his private part and is currently responding to treatment at Danbatta General Hospital Medical Care. The PPRO said the suspect fled the village into neighboring Jigawa State  after the incident before she was later tracked down by a team of policemen on Operation Puff Adder and arrested from her hideout at Babura LGA in Jigawa State. “Preliminary investigation revealed that she committed the act because her husband is planning to marry a second wife.” “The state commissioner of police CP Iliyasu Ahmed ordered that the case be transferred to State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department for discreet investigation. Suspect will soon be charged to court for prosecution,” DSP Kiyawa added. He therefore called on the good and law abiding citizens of the State to always promptly report any incident to the nearest police station without delay saying doing so would assist in immediate arrest, investigation and diligent prosecution of the culprits. Woman pours boiling water on hubby over 2nd wife Irate wife pours hot water on hubby in Rubochi Man, 26, slaughters his wife, buries her corpse in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin