A group of teachers under the auspices of ‘Teachers Without Borders,  has honoured the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN), Bayelsa state command, for their efforts in providing security, combatting crime and other anti-social vices in Bayelsa schools, especially those in rural and coastal areas of the state. The award was bestowed on the state commander of the group, Mr Tolumobofa Akpoebibo Jonathan, yesterday at the state headquarters of the organization in Yenagoa. Speaking during the presentation of the award, the state director of the teachers’ group, Mr Philip Eke, said the award is in recognition of the group’s contribution to the security of the state, especially in fighting anti-social vices among school children, protecting school facilities and combating crimes in the rural areas. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Eke said that the group is a United State based Non Governmental Organization (NGO) working  to encourage selfless service in the country and promote commitment to duty. He said: “We in the heart of Niger Delta know the security challenges we face, we know how difficult it is to penetrate our communities, especially those in riverine areas, but members of Vigilante group are spread in every community and are contributing to the  safety of our people, especially the school children. “Before now, cultism and other anti-social vices were so rampant in our schools, but with the voluntary effort of your members the menace has been reduced drastically. “Most of the rural communities have experienced peace through the presence of your members, that is why we pray that government should give you necessary backing to intensify your operations,” he said. Responding, the state Commander of VGN,  Tolumobofa Akpoebibo Jonathan, commended the group for recognizing their efforts in contributing to the security of the state and the country, adding that his men will continue to do more to  complement  the efforts of the conventional security organizations. He said that VGN is community based security outfit, who understands the terrain and know criminal elements to their homes.  Insecurity: Vigilante group offers surveillance on Bayelsa creeks, public facilities Banditry: Vigilante group deploys 4,500 men to Kebbi communities Edo set to tackle anti-social behaviour in secondary schools Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin