The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is worried about the activities of VIPs and uniformed personnel who obstruct vehicular movement at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) in Lagos, Daily Trust reports. Our correspondent learnt that a certain VIP stormed the international wing of the MMIA recently with 12 vehicles thereby causing obstruction to other airport users. Sources said many passengers have missed flights due to gridlock at the airport. As a result, the FAAN/MMA management has constituted a task force team comprising senior staff to man the entry gates leading to the terminal. This emerged during a stakeholders’ forum organized by SERVICOM unit held to review operations at the terminal following recent incursion on the runway. The authority also said it would improve on efforts at mitigating insider threat around the airport through thorough background checks on personnel working at the terminal against the backdrop of recent incursion at the MMA terminal. The FAAN Regional Manager, South-West and MMIA Manager, Mrs. Victoria Shin’aba who spoke on the sidelines of the forum expressed concern at the indiscriminate parking by VIPs and some uniformed officials. “It has been a running battle between FAAN/MMA management and unformed men and escorts. When we realized it was getting too much and people were missing their flights, the MMA management constituted a task force to man the gate and the challenge has been daunting. You see some escorts come with 12 vehicles just to see off or pick one or two persons…” General Manager Custom Service/SERVICOM, Mrs. Ebele Okoye said the authority was committed to improving service delivery at the airport and ensure the users especially passengers get values for their money. She also vowed that the authority was concerned about the issue of bribery, saying, “We must do all within our power to correct those negative perceptions about airport workers. We have come to partner with you also to solicit your cooperation and understating.” The interactive session attracted personnel from Police, Immigration, Aviation Security, Civil Defence, FAAN Aerodrome Fire, towing company, among others at the airport. FAAN: Repositioning for better services Airports at the mercy of land grabbers ‘Baggage theft, touting have reduced at Lagos Airport’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin