The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has resolved to reconfirm biometrics of all candidates that sat for its Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The board made this known in its Vol. 1, No 27 weekly Bulletin of the Office of the Registrar, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. The board said that the development was to detect impersonators, fish them out and prosecute them along their sponsors. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE It also vowed to publish names of imposters in order to serve as a deterrent to others as well as stem the antics of professional examination takers. According to the board, the step was taken as a result of a huge number of applications it received with the aim of perfecting fraudulent acts that have aided impersonation in the past. The board said that it had in recent time, been inundated with series of complaints bordering on change of name, state of origin, local government, gender, date of birth, subject combination among others. Some of this, it said, was an attempt to perfect an infraction that had transpired in the past. It said that in the course of its attempt to block all forms of malpractices, the board discovered that candidates employed professional examination takers to register for the examination. “They register with the candidates name and afterwards, apply for correction of all other details. “To address this, the board has resolved to revalidate all biometrics of candidates that have taken the boards examination, to fish out these impersonators and prosecute them along their sponsors,” it said. In a similar development, the board also cautioned parents and candidates against group registration of the UTME, conducted by some elite schools and tutorial classes. This group registration, the board said, end up distorting candidate’s data after the culprits must have exploited both parents and candidates of huge sums of money for the so-called success of the exercise. “The public is therefore urged to be mindful of unscrupulous elite schools who exploit parents by collecting huge sums of money to register their students in group,” it said, adding that “Candidates must register individually and not in groups.” (NAN)  JAMB introduces innovations for 2019 UTME No going back on UTME biometrics –says JAMB UTME: No exemption on biometric verification, JAMB insists Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin