The Kogi United Youths Forum (KUYF), yesterday, urged the National Working Committee of the APC to respect the feelings of the people and opt for direct primaries to choose the party’s gubernatorial candidate. The APC had chosen indirect option ahead of the August 29 primary election of the party. The president-general of KUYF, Comrade Musa Ali Otigba, said yesterday during a visit to the Daily Trust head office in Abuja, that they waded into the matter as a non-partisan group. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said: “Let me make it clear to you that we are not an affiliate of any political party. We’ve not endorsed any governorship candidate for now. “We’re for everyone and that’s why I’m saying we don’t want anything that will create problem. Already there are protests everywhere. Those for and those against indirect primary. I believe once we adopt direct primary, everybody will be happy and every interest will be protected. “We are in support of everything that will bring peace to Kogi; anything that will make the people comfortable. And for now, if you go to the state, what everybody is saying is that the indirect primary is going to favour the governor. “This is because other aspirants believed the indirect primary is to give space to the incumbent governor because he is going to control the delegates that would vote during the primary. “That’s why I’m not satisfied with indirect primary in Kogi; direct primary accommodates different interests.  It’s your popularity that will make you win. And as far as I’m concerned, the Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, is a popular man. So, I don’t see the reason why people are saying the indirect primary is in his favour. “I want to urge the APC National Working Committee to consider the request by the people; let it be direct primary so that those who think the indirect primary is going to favour only Bello should go and test their popularity at that primary,” he said. When told that Bello might probably be the brain behind the indirect primary option, Otigba said: “The issue is that Bello is a popular candidate in Kogi State. Therefore, he shouldn’t be afraid of direct primary in his own party.”  APC: Abia adopts direct primaries  as Kebbi, Ebonyi opt for consensus APC in last minute effort to mend rifts in states Kogi: 20 APC gov’ship aspirants reject indirect primary Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin