The police on Thursday arraigned a painter, Felix Tar and two others in an FCT High Court Maitama, for alleged armed robbery. The police charged Tar, 21, alongside Augustine Thomas, 30, a plumber of Mabushi and Innocent Jackson 26 also of Mabushi with four counts bordering on conspiracy and armed robbery. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Kufruabasi Ebong, told the court that on Oct. 15, 2018, the defendants and others at large conspired, armed with guns, robbed Ms Eno Ekpo at her home in Wuse II. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Ebong alleged that the defendants stole a thermacool deep freezer, a generator set, and other valuables. He said the offence, contravened the provisions of sections 6 and 1 (2) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provision) Act, 2004. He alleged also that on Nov. 24, 2018, the defendants robbed one Benjamin Matthias in his resident at Wuse II. Ebong told the defendants stole two 55 inch Plasma television, four cans of black bullet drink, two bottles of whisky and other valuables. After the charges were read to them, they pleaded not guilty. The defendants’ counsel, Mr Osaze Ebie, moved to apply for bail for his clients. But the trial Judge, Justice Salisu Garba, informed him that the annual court vacation will begin on Monday and there would be no time to rule in the bail application. He gave him options, saying, take the application to a vacation judge or wait until the court resumes from its vacation. Garba then adjourned until Oct. 8 for hearing after the Ebie (defence counsel) told the court that he would go to the vacation court to seek for their bail. The judge however, ordered that the defendants be remanded in the prison custody pending the determination of their bail application. (NAN)  Painter, 2 others arraigned for alleged armed robbery in Abuja Court issues warrant on defendants over failure to appear for trial 3 men appear in court for alleged theft Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin