Contract employees of Ecobank affected by a massive layoff early this month, yesterday at a press conference in Abuja requested the bank authorities to pay them severance allowances according to their ‘contract agreement.’ As many as 1,500 employees were said to have been dismissed from work nationwide abruptly, a leader of the affected staff, Mr Eze Felix has said. He said most of those whose contracts were terminated have served the bank on probation for between five and fifteen years without being made permanent employees. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We are fighting the manner in which we were discharged from the bank after working for over ten years without the required severance package”, he said. A female employee, Mariam Owuro, who was also expelled after 15-year work, called on President Muhammadu Buhari, National Assembly and Nigeria Labour Congress to address the plight of the contract staff working with the bank. Meanwhile the bank has in a statement yesterday said it hasn’t terminated the appointment of any staff rather, it “decided to renew the contract of its third party recruitment agencies as such returned this category of personnel back to these agencies who are their employers.” The bank said palliative measures were put in place to cushion the effect on the affected workers which included “payment of contract cessation packages of over half a billion Naira already paid through their employers as well as opportunity given to those with requisite qualification to apply to the bank for permanent employment. Massive sack as strong banks acquire weak ones JUST IN: Bank union pickets Ecobank over alleged non-payment of severance allowance for sacked 900 staff 600 sacked Aero workers yet to get severance packages 8 months after — union Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin