The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has said the recently announced recapitalisation exercise for Nigerian insurance companies will impact how the insurance brokers will place businesses going forward. Recall the insurance regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) had announced new minimum paid-up capital requirement for underwriting firms and they have up until June 30, 2020 to meet the new capital base. In the new capital base, Life Insurance companies require a paid-up capital of N8bn from N2bn, General Insurance companies have to recapitalize to N10bn from N3bn, while Composite Insurance companies now need N18bn to underwrite businesses up from N5bn. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Reinsurance companies will now have to raise their minimum paid-up capital from N10bn to N20bn if they must remain in business. Speaking to reporters at the sidelines of the NCRIB members’ evening sponsored by Linkage Assurance Plc in Abuja, Wednesday, Mr. Omoladun Lateef, the chairman, Abuja Area Committee, said “although it is targeted at insurance companies, it affects the whole industry.” He explained further that insurance companies that won’t meet recapitalisation, they will be careful how they deal with them, adding that “they will patronize them but they will be careful with the kind of business we give them.” In his remarks, the MD/CEO Linkage Assurance Plc, Mr. Daniel Braie, said the brokers have been instrumental to the success of the companies hence the sustained partnerships with the brokers. NAICOM raises capital base of insurance companies by over 300% Don’t take insurance without a broker – NCRIB president 2014: The year of challenges, opportunities in insurance sector Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin