The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended to President Muhammadu Buhari the appointment of Justice Tanko Muhammad as substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). The decision was reached yesterday at an emergency meeting chaired by former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Umaru Abdullahi. In a statement by the Director of Information of the NJC, Soji Oye, the decision followed a recommendation of the Interview Committee set up by the Council which screened two “candidates presented by the Federal Judicial Service Commission to it for appointment as Chief Justice of Nigeria.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The NJC also commended the president on his stand on judicial autonomy and called on state executives to “as a matter of urgency, commence its immediate implementation. It posited that this is not only in line with the constitutional dictates, but presently the judicial position.” The statement also stated in the plenary presided by Justice Muhammad, some judges were recommended to state governors for appointment as Chief Judges for Lagos, Anambra, Ebonyi, Niger and Taraba states as well as Grand Kadis for Kano and Jigawa states. Those recommended as Chief Judges are: Justice Muhammad S. Sifawa (Sokoto); Justice Kazeem Alogba (Lagos); Justice Ijem Onwuamaegbu (Anambra); Justice Nwaigwe A. Anselm (Ebonyi); Justice Aliyu Mayaki (Niger) and Justice Filibus B. Andetur (Taraba). Also, Kadi Tijjani Yusuf Yakassai and Kadi Isa Jibrin Gantsa were recommended as Grand Kadis for Kano and Jigawa states respectively. “The newly appointed Heads of Court will be sworn-in after the approval of the President and their respective State Governors and confirmation by the Senate and State Houses of Assembly as the case may be,” the statement reads. “Council also considered notification of retirements of Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Chief Judges of Gombe, Edo, Niger, Ebonyi, Acting Chief Judge of Kebbi States as well as those of nine (9) other Judicial Officers from the Federal High Court, High Courts of Gombe, Delta, Edo, Imo, Benue and Katsina States.” Breaking: NJC recommends Justice Tanko for confirmation as substantive CJN NJC reconvenes next week over Justice Muhammad’s tenure Group urges Buhari NJC, FJSC to confirm Justice Tanko as CJN Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin