The Rivers  State Governorship Election  Petitions Tribunal  has dismissed the petition  filed by the African Action Congress (AAC) governorship candidate in the 2019 general election, Biokpomabo Awara, against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP). The tribunal presided over by Justice K. A. Orjiako dismissed the petition on the ground  that it was deemed abandoned on the ground  of Paragraph 4 of the First Schedule of the Electoral Act. According to the tribunal, the petition was deemed to be technically abandoned because the AAC and its candidate failed to meet key procedural requirements as to applying for pre-hearing information. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The three man panel led by Justice K. A Ojiako declared that petition number EPT/RS/GOV/03/2019 was incompetent and therefore dismissed it. Earlier, the tribunal struck out applications by the AAC governorship candidate, seeking that he be separated from all joint applications previously made with the party. Recall that the AAC recently adopted Mr Henry Bello to represent it at the tribunal after the former counsel, Tawo Tawo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria withdrew from the matter, with a notice of change of counsel filed at the tribunal. This application came in after the AAC brought in another counsel to handle its matter at the tribunal. The three-man panel led by Justice K. A Ojiako, after going through arguments in the Awara, AAC suit against Governor Wike  ruled that all applications filed by the 1st Petitioner (Tawo Tawo, former AAC counsel) are struck out. Ojiako noted that the application by the petitioner (Counsel for Awara; Mustafa Ibrahim) has been found to be an abuse of court process. The panel also struck out the application filed by the petitioner for pre-hearing of the matter. JUST IN: Election Tribunal upholds Governor Wike's re-election Rivers: Wike appeals tribunal judgment Court dismisses suit seeking to stop collation of results in Rivers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin