The INEC boss also announced plans for the upcoming Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections holding simultaneously in the two states on November 16. According to him, the commission had already released the timetable and schedule of activities for the elections, with party primaries slated for 18th August to 5th September 2019, while the deadline of 5th September 2019 was firm and fixed. “The conduct of primaries and nomination of candidates must be transparent and democratic in accordance with the provisions of Section 87 of the Electoral Act as well as our regulations and guidelines. The commission expects strict compliance by all parties that wish to nominate candidates for the elections. No nomination arising from primaries conducted after the deadline will be accepted by the commission. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYMDROM DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “So far, three political parties have given us notices indicating the dates for their primaries for both Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections. The commission once again reminds party leaders to do the needful. In doing so, you should indicate not only the dates but also venues and time for the primaries. “I urge you to avoid persistent rescheduling of your primaries or late minute change of venue which sometimes disenfranchises your members and makes effective monitoring by the commission difficult. “Where political parties opt for direct primaries, there should be proper register of members otherwise it will amount to conducting an election without the voters’ register,” Yakubu said. PDP NEC pegs Kogi, Bayelsa guber nomination form at 20m INEC fixes Nov. 2 for Kogi, Bayelsa governorship polls INEC fixes Nov. 2 for Kogi, Bayelsa gov’ship polls Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin