With more than 33 percent broadband penetration, hundreds of kilometres of fibre cables laid across the country, about five Infrastructure Companies (Infracos) licensed and a 70 percent broadband target in few years’ time, Nigeria is almost ready for the latest telecom technology – 5Generation, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said. The new NCC Director of Public Affairs, Dr Henry Nkemadu, said this yesterday when he led a team of top NCC officials on a courtesy visit to the headquarters of Daily Trust newspapers in Abuja. NCC’s work and activities affect the overall development of Nigeria’s economy hence the need for it to always key in to any new technology, Dr Nkemadu said. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “ We are doing many innovative things to ensure that Nigeria doesn’t lose out in the 4th industrial revolution’’, he said. He said hundreds of kilometres of fibre cables have been laid across the country and the broadband penetration is increasing by the day. He said the NCC was already making frantic efforts to hit 70 % broadband penetration in few years’ time. This and many other noble plans of the commission, he said, had prepare the country for the 5G technology. He said Nigeria had one of the best telecom markets across the world, and this was made possible by efforts of NCC and the private sector. He called on Nigerians to always channel their complaints to NCC to further improve the telecom sector.  Broadband penetration: We have surpassed target - NCC Infrastructure firms to get N3billion subsidy, not N23billion, says NCC Nigeria will attain 30% broadband penetration by Dec, NCC insists Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin