Commercial activities at the Lagos Port Complex remain crippled by the ongoing industrial action embarked on by members of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) over non-payment of wages and bonus by the managements of international oil companies. The strike was embarked on at the instance of the executive of the union who had earlier given the international oil firms two weeks’ notice to pay the back log of face the wrath of its members. The negotiation which entered day two on Thursday remained deadlocked as neither the union nor the terminal operators was ready to shift ground. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The peace meeting arranged between the International Oil Companies (IOCs) and maritime workers under the aegis of the Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN) by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) which started on Wednesday ended in a deadlock as both parties refused to shift ground. As at 4pm, both parties, it was gathered, could not reach a formal agreement on the payment of all outstanding entitlements being owed the workers by the IOC’s. The General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communication of NAP, Engr. Jatto Adeiza Adams, told Daily Trust on phone that the meeting, which he said was not a formal one, would avail all party the opportunity to express themselves. He said the meeting which is being championed by the NPA was a welcome development and that at the end of it all, both parties would agree on a meeting point that would be suitable to all. “I see a ray of hope. Since you entered the port yesterday it shows that something good will come out of the meeting,” he said. Skeletal operations were ongoing when our correspondent visited the Apapa port, yesterday, around noon. Some dockworkers were seen in groups discussing their issue. None of them however agreed to comment on the effect of the strike on the nation’s economy but that the International Oil Companies should do the needful. When contacted, the President-General of MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, told our correspondent that the strike was ongoing and that the points raised have  been established. He said they were yet to hear anything positive from the managements of the International Oil Companies.   Dock workers begin nationwide industrial action Dockworkers threaten to down tools over IOCs debts 2014: Year of industrial actions Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin