The Nigerian Army has described as fake news reports of the appointment of a new Chief of Army Staff (COAS), to replace Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai. Shortly after the announcement of the promotion of Major General Lamidi Adeosun to the rank of Lieutenant General, the same rank as Buratai on Tuesday, some sections of the media reported that Buratai had been replaced by Adeosun. However, a statement from Army spokesman, Colonel Sagir Musa dismissed the reports as fake news, adding that Adeosun remains Chief of Training and Operations, Army Headquarters. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said, “contrary to fake news going around insinuating or suggesting the appointment of Lieutenant General L.O. Adeosun as Chief of Army Staff of the Nigerian Army.” “Members of the public are hereby once again informed that Lieutenant General L.O. Adeosun has just been given special/accelerated promotion from Major General to Lieutenant General and formally communicated to him by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen T.Y. Buratai. “Lt Gen L.O. Adeosun is only granted special promotion by the President, Commander-in-Chief, of the Armed Forced of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari for his extraordinary feats, exemplary leadership, loyalty and uncommon commitment in the counter-insurgency operation in the North-eastern part of Nigeria. “He still retains his appointment/position as Chief of Training and Operations of the Nigerian Army. Any contrary information is baseless, fake news and should be disregarded,” he stated. Buratai remains Army Chief despite Adeosun's promotion to Lieutenant General Army releases postings, appointment of 399 officers Nigerian Army releases postings, appointment of 399 officers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin