The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is collaborating with other agencies and relevant stakeholders on cyber security to safeguard the consumers’ data, the commission’s Executive Vice Chairman Prof Umar Garba Danbatta has said. Prof Danbatta spoke in Lafia, Nasarawa state yesterday during the 107th edition of Consumers Outreach Programme organised by the commission. The NCC boss, who was represented by a deputy director in the Consumers Affairs department of the commission, Alhaji Ismail Adedigba, said the telecom industry regulatory agency had been stepping up efforts in recent times to secure Nigeria’s cyberspace. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE ” NCC has been making several efforts in collaboration with other agencies and relevant stakeholders to secure our cyberspace”, he said. Part of the efforts, he said, was increasing the enlightenment programme to curb cybercrimes. He said the NCC valued all telecom consumers, and would go extra miles to protect their data. Prof Danbatta said the Commission was in the process of establishing an Internet Industry Code of Practice, whose object is to come up with robust framework to sanitise the cyber space for telecom consumers. In her speech, the Director of Consumers Affairs, Mrs Felicia Onwuegbuchulam said criminals are stepping up their games and the commission needed to be ahead of them. She restated the commission’s commitment to check the menace of cybercrime activities in the country. “It is a common knowledge that smartphone and other smart devices used by telecom consumers are a storehouse of data carrying sensitive information about their owners, their families, businesses, associates and daily interactions as well as financial transactions details. Admittedly, the Internet touches almost all aspects of our lives as telecom consumers,” she said. She averred that continuous consumer education and awareness remain one of the most effective ways to protect telecom consumers. NCC moves to protect telecoms subscribers from cyber attacks NCC establishes industry code to regulate internet access NCC establishes industry code to regulate internet access Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin