The Federation of Construction Industry (FOCI) has called on the federal government to establish a construction bank because the construction industry is the bedrock of development of Nigeria. The call was made by a member of the FOCI Board of Trustees and former president of FOCI, Engr. Ebenezer B. Osoba, at its 63rd Annual General Meeting held in Abuja. FOCI President, Engr. Nasiru A. Dantata, who gave a general outlook of the year 2018/2019, said the period was a mixed one for the Nigerian economy as there was a slight recovery in services and industry particularly mining, quarrying and manufacturing. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said FOCI is in the process of fencing its land in Pyakasa, Abuja, and said the council had formalized a mutual beneficial rent agreement with a block mounding outfit for its land in Galadima area of Abuja. Nasiru Dantata, whose executives were re-elected unopposed for another term, also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Engineering Registration Amendment Act, 2019 which grants FOCI representation on the Council of Registered Engineers in Nigeria (COREN). FOCI Treasurer, Abubakar Ndakpayi, who presented the annual reports together with the audited financial statements of FOCI, said total income for 2018 was N132.4 million against N144.6 million in 2017, while expenditure was N108.5m for 2018 against N125.5m for 2017. Other activities at the occasion include products presentation, cutting of 65th anniversary cake, launch of new FOCI profile, and display and distribution of new FOCI certificates.  Nigeria has competent contractors – FOCI FG settled nearly half of our outstanding debt – Construction firms Firms appeal to FIRS to release N36bn withholding tax credit notes Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin