A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Envision Global Care Foundation (EGCF) has donated ante and post-natal wards to the Primary Healthcare Centre  (PHC), Lugbe, Abuja and they were. commissioned by the Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido. Besides the two wards, the foundation also installed a solar lighting system in the labour ward and also renovated three other buildings in the centre. Speaking at the commissioning of the project tagged: “Improving Primary Healthcare System Capacity For Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (PROJECT IPHSC)”, the Programme Manager of the foundation, Mr. Kevin Ogbajie, said the Lugbe project was part of a bigger design with a budget of N27m which would also be extended to seven other locations in the FCT. He said the foundation was health-focused and humanitarian and that  it had been on the frontline in delivering quality health projects; interventions to rural and economically disadvantaged communities in Nigeria with a view to expanding to other parts of Africa. He said the organisation was also into Maternal and Child Health Integrated Programme (MNCHIP) where pregnant women were provided with delivery kits and their hospital bills paid for. He said, “As opposed to a one-time donation or intervention, PROJECT IPHSC is structured in a way that ensures sustainability and makes for long-lasting impact. The uniqueness of this project is in its primary objective – the establishment of a Volunteer Support Group (VSG). The VSG is a network of primary healthcare workers, pregnant women and mothers of children under five who would gather periodically for the purpose of health information dissemination. “The VSG would be established in each of the target communities and would enroll 500 less privileged pregnant women and mothers who would be assisted with the needed drugs, as well as basic nutritional supplements. We would appoint Health Communication Officers (HCOs) in each of the communities who would monitor the wellbeing of the women by visiting them regularly, providing them with medical treatment where necessary and referring them to the primary health centre for treatment that cannot be administered at home.” Yobe, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation partner on healthcare, agric FG, USAID launch health systems, PHC strengthening project Revitalising deplorable PHCs in the FCT Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin