The presidential candidate of the Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Ambrose Owuru has claimed he defeated President Muhammadu Buhari with 50 million votes in a presidential referendum. A National Working Committee member of the HDP, Yusuf Ibrahim while testifying at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, stated that the referendum took place on February 16 despite the postponement of the election by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC). Led in evidence yesterday by counsel to HDP, Eze Nnanyelugo, Ibrahim submitted that the postponement of the election to February 23, without fulfilling conditions precedent was illegal, unconstitutional and a nullity. The witness also alleged that the party was wrongly excluded by not indicating their logo on the ballot paper for the February 23 presidential election. Ibrahim tendered documents including ‘Citizens Observers Referendum Election Rights Protection of Nigeria,’ ‘Final List of Presidential Candidate,’ and copies of major newspapers. The newspapers tendered included the Daily Trust of February 15, 2019; Sunday Telegraph of February 20, 2019; Guardian of February 18, 2018; Tribune, Nigeria Pilot and Daily Independent  to buttress his claim on the referendum. Under cross examination by counsel to the All Progressives Congress (APC), Akin Olujimi (SAN), Ibrahim admitted that only INEC is empowered by law to conduct elections in the country. He however added that HDP’s referendum was conducted physically by the political party and not on the internet. The move by the HDP to produce a second witness, Ama Peter was refused by the tribunal as the witness was said to have failed to attach a sworn affidavit. The chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba thereafter adjourned the petition to August 5 to enable the parties in the matter file their final written address in the matter. Presidential Tribunal: 'I defeated Buhari with 50m votes' Tribunal: Feb 23 presidential election shift unconstitutional – HDP Tribunal dismisses HDP’s motion for additional witnesses Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin