The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), says it has concluded arrangements to deploy additional 1, 500 personnel under its agro-ranger scheme to farmlands this cropping season to provide security for farmers. The Commandant-General of the corps, Mr Abdullahi Muhammadu made this known in an interview with newsmen in Maiduguri yesterday. According to Muhammadu, the measure is to protect farmers against incessant attacks by bandits and kidnappers to enable them cultivate their farmlands. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said that the deployment would also mobilise farmers and build their confidence to enable them carry out their activities without fear. Muhammadu explained that about 750 personnel would undergo five-week training before deployment to the eight bandit-prone areas in Katsina State. He said that the personnel would be exposed to techniques for internal security, map reading, tactics, first aid and field craft as well as Improvised Explosive Device (IED) detection and demobilisation. The commander decried reports indicating several farmers were killed in farmlands, while others were displaced due to attacks by the bandits. Muhammadu said that the Agro-Ranger unit was created following request by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to provide security for the proposed 250 cattle ranches in the country. Agro-Ranger scheme was designed to secure ranched animals and grazing areas to encourage investment in agriculture. The corps had in January deployed about 2, 500 personnel to check clashes between farmers and herdsmen. (NAN) Borno farmers plead for security against Boko Haram attacks Farmers call for protection against Boko Haram Sallah: NSCDC deploys 40,000 personnel, sniffer dogs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin