A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince B.B. Apugo, said yesterday that the South East must join the ruling party so as to bargain for recognition at the centre from the position of strength. Apugo, a member of APC Board of Trustees and National Caucus, said in an interview in Abuja that it was wrong for people of the South East to ask for power and recognition from outside, saying the best way to go was to join the ruling party, support the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and then negotiate for key positions as a matter of right. On the possibility of the South East producing the president in 2023, Apugo said, “You see, that’s imagination! Nothing is wrong with presumptions, but for me, it is too early to start talking about 2023 when we haven’t survived 2019. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “It’s after those in government have settled themselves, we’ve ministers and others in place, then by 2020, 2021 we start talking about 2023. Nobody knows who’ll live up to that time. We’re not God.” When asked if the Federal Government had done enough for the South East in the last four years to warrant the region embracing the ruling party, the Abia born politician said, “I’m calling on my colleagues to come back; not only that, I’m also calling on South East governors to join APC because we cannot be talking of power coming to us without having allies. And the allies we have must trust us. “That’s why I’m calling on them to come, because if you’re not there you cannot say what you want. If you’re an opposition, you’re called an opposition. “I want my people in the South East to join APC to be able to ask for what the Federal Government should do for them. My state delivered 25 per cent; I’m from Abia State. Enugu didn’t deliver, Anambra didn’t deliver, Imo didn’t deliver; it’s Ebonyi that delivered. “And if APC is going for those that won election… I don’t think the other three (states) would get anything. And if they didn’t get anything, it is a big load on Abia and Ebonyi; the rest would be starved. That’s why I’m saying all should come so that we have development in our area. We are losing because of the fact we’re not with the Federal Government,” Apugo, a former chieftain of the PDP, said he was not happy that those who moved to APC with him ahead of 2015 elections such as Kwankwaso, Saraki, Dogara had mostly gone back to their former party. ‘How Buhari’s ‘new’ gov’t should address Igbo concerns’ NASS leadership: Nigeria won’t balance if S/East is not considered — Okorocha APC, 2023 postulations and national unity Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin