Malam Ado Sulaiman is the father of the late Sa’id, the 5-year-old child abducted and killed by three teenagers, including a relative. Daily Trust Saturday spoke to the grieving dad. Excerpts: Daily Trust: Can you please recount the events leading to the tragedy? Malam Ado Sulaiman: I was in the market, where I trade. Around 1pm, my phone rang, and when I answered, they gave my son the phone to talk to me. I wasn’t sure, so I asked who it was, and he said ‘Baba, it’s me Sa’id’. Then I heard one of them in the background dishing instructions. They hung up, and called me back five minutes later, and told me, simply, ‘we’ve kidnapped your son’. I became dazed, disoriented, and I hung up. After a little while, I called home to ascertain their claim. I called his maternal grandmother, as he’s been living with her for a while, and she told me that she’s sent for him to be picked from school. But the person who usually picks him said upon getting to the school, he saw Sa’id with Ibrahim, a cousin of his mother’s, who insisted on taking him home. So even though I spoke to the kidnappers, hearing that, I felt a bit better. But after some hours searching, I went to report to the police. Getting there, the kidnappers called me and asked if I could come to Zaria and fetch my child, and I said yes. They demanded for a N20million ransom. We haggled, and eventually came down to N6million, which I insisted I don’t have. He asked me what I could afford, and I said N100,000. He then asked me to give him some time to confer with his colleagues. After like 30 minutes he called and told me that they’ve accepted, then we started talking about how to get the ransom across. DT: At what point did you involve the police? Sulaiman: I decided to go and report at Hockey Police Station. Getting there, the kidnapper called and said that he knows I’m involving the police, and that they’re watching me. He threatened to kill Sa’id if I involve the police. I told them that’s not the case. Then we started the preparation with the police, as they collected all the necessary information. We set out to the agreed drop-point, and the kidnapper called me and asked if I know the area called Hassan Gwarzo, and I said yes. He said I should go there and drop the money around one mini-bridge. Then I set out on my bike, and when I got to the agreed point he called to signal that he’d seen me. All this while, I’ve been in contact with the police, feeding them info. So, when he saw me, he said I should get a black polythene bag and put the money inside, and leave once I drop the bag. I did exactly that. But as he came to pick the money, the police arrested him. DT: Is the suspected mastermind of the kidnap related to you as widely reported? Sulaiman: He’s my wife’s cousin. I saw him only once when he came from Sudan to visit my wife and other relatives. His parents are both in Sudan. I learnt that he came to my house to visit his cousin (my wife) twice, but I only ever saw him once. And since then, I’d not seen him until this incident. I must confess to you that at first sight, I noticed that the young man, Ibrahim, is into drugs. He doesn’t look responsible. He’s not up to 20, but he is into drugs. That’s what I noticed. DT: How then did you get the corpse of the child? Sulaiman: The police continued interrogating him about the whereabouts of the kidnapped child, and it was then that he said he had left him with his friends; then he led the police to the said friends, and two of them were arrested. When they were brought back to the station they were asked where the child is, and they started trading blame, dragging until about midnight, so the police asked us to go home and come back the following morning. In the morning, before we went back to the station, Ibrahim had told the police that Sa’id had been strangled to death, and had been buried. When I came the following day around 1pm they referred me to the police command at Bompai, where one high-ranking officer disclosed to me that the boy had been killed. The police commissioner led a team of personnel to where the boy was buried, and Ibrahim showed them the spot. The corpse was exhumed, and taken to the hospital, where checks were conducted. The following day, the police handed me the corpse, which we prepared and buried. DT: Have the suspects been charged to court? Sulaiman: I can’t tell, because when I went to ask for the corpse, they told me that they will notify us when they are done with their investigations, and are about to charge the suspects to court. But since then, there’s not been a single word. It’s over two weeks now. DT: Can you forgive the kidnappers? Sulaiman: No, I can’t. Even the father of Ibrahim has called me, and condoled with me over what happened, and at the end of our discussion he told me that whoever comes to ask for forgiveness for Ibrahim, he would never forgive that person. He added that if Ibrahim is not prosecuted accordingly, he would never forgive me. Wife kills husband’s brother over dispute with mother-in-law Abducted boy, 7, found dead after N1m ransom failure ‘How my nine months  old pregnant wife died  in police custody’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin