The Kwara State House of Assembly has constituted a five-man Ad-Hoc Committee to probe all acquisitionsof government properties by individuals in the state. The setting up of the committee was sequel to Matter of General Public Importance on the sudden change in the name of state government owned Tourist Kitchen to Bubble 007, raised by the House Leader and member representing Ilorin Central Constituency, Hon. Abubakar Olawoyin Mogaji at the floor of the House. The members of the committee, according to the Speaker, Engr. Yakubu Danladi Salihu, who presided over the Thursday sitting, are member representing Ojomu/Balogun Constituency Prince Saheed Popoola as Chairman and Hon Abdullahi Halihu Danbaba Deputy Chairman. Others are members representing Ilorin South, Ilorin North West and Isin Constituencies Hons. Hassan AbdulAzeez Elewu, Barrister Abdul-Gafar Olayemi Ayinla and Hon Olamide Ayokunle Awolola respectively. The Speaker, while charging the Ad-Hoc Committee to carry out the assignment diligently, assured that the house would not allow the commonwealth of the public to be taken over by individuals as necessary steps would be taken to salvage the state from the verge socio-economic backwardness. Salihu equally assured the people of the state that the outcome of the investigation would be implemented to the letter by the executive arm of government and referred the investigation on the ownership of Tourist Kitchen to the House Committee on Youth ,Sports, Information, Culture and Tourism and report its findings next week Thursday. Hon. Mogaji had while raising the Matter, raised  pertinent questions on the current status of the state owned Tourist Kitchen and urged the House to mandate relevant committee to unravel the current status of the Tourist Kitchen.  Kwara Assembly to investigate Harmony Holdings Ekiti House suspends another member for 101 legislative days Health insurance struck from gov''s office at Kwara budget defence Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin