The Science and Technology Unit of  the Federal Capital Territory Universal Basic Education Board has organised a science and technology competition for both private and public basic schools in the territory. The competition’s grand finale which was held at FCT UBEB Science and Technology Resource Centre Junior Secondary School, Hajj Camp Gwagwalada, featured activities such as Project Exhibition and Quiz for both primary pupils and junior secondary students. A statement by the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the board, Mohammed S. Lawal, indicated that the Director FCT-UBEB, Dr. Adamu Jatau Noma, was represented by the Head of Department Junior Secondary School, Malam Hussan Bako at the event. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Bako who went round to observe various projects such as electrolytic welding machine, wireless electricity, biofuel from waste or fresh vegetable oil constructed by students from different schools, expressed his joy and hailed teachers for their good works. He stated that there was hope for Nigeria for there were upcoming engineers and technicians who would make the country proud and that sustainable development in every nation depended on the number of its citizens who have adequate knowledge and skills. Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) emerged the overall best in the competition which had all the six area councils in the FCT participating.   Bwari and Kwali came second and third respectively. A student each from private and public schools were paired and they represented an area council.  The overall best students/pupils from public schools were Orji Chidera (JSS Area 11) and Thomas Zephaniah (LEA Primary School Kuchiako) while that of private schools were Marvelous Anayo (Oprite International School) and Eneche Destiny (Oprite International School).  FCT-UBEB organises workshop to improve teaching FCT UBEB to open bank account for entrepreneur development in schools FCT Schools win South Korean drawing competition Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin