Eight ministerial nominees including Goddy Jedy-Agba (Cross River), Osagie Ehanire (Edo), Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa), Sen Hadi Sirika (Katsina), are going to be screened today by the Senate. Others to be screened today are Abubakar Malami (Kebbi), Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara), Paulen Tallen (Plateau) and Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi (Sokoto), Senate President Ahmad Lawan announced yesterday. This is even as the upper chamber has so far screened a total of 24 ministerial nominees out of the 43 presented to it by President Muhammadu Buhari. The 24 nominees were screened in 13 hours between Wednesday and yesterday. On Wednesday, the senators spent about six hours to screen 10 nominees while yesterday it took them only seven hours to screen 14 nominees. The 14 nominees screened yesterday were Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa), Sen Chris Ngige (Anambra), Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti), Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano), Ramatu Tijjani (Kogi), Mohammed Abdullahi (Nasarawa), Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo), Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe), Zubairu Dada (Niger), Sunday Dare (Oyo), Mohammed Musa Bello (Adamawa), Sadiya Umar Farouk (Zamfara) and Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna). Ten of the nominees took a ‘bow and go’ including those who are not former lawmakers, bringing the number of those who benefitted from the tradition to 16 so far. Six got the special preference on Wednesday. Yesterday’s screening started by 10:43am and ended by 6:50pm. Abubakar Aliyu, a former Yobe State deputy governor, was asked to take a bow and go, when Sen Kabiru Gaya (APC,Kano) requested for it. The motion was seconded by James Manager (PDP,Delta). Richard Adeniyi Adebayo from Ekiti received the same treatment when Sen Adamu Aliero (APC,Kebbi) moved a motion in that regard. Sen Danjuma Goje (APC,Gombe) seconded the motion. Angered by the gale of ‘take a bow and go’, minority leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia) kicked when the three senators from Niger State requested that Ambassador Zubairu Dada be given the same privilege. Following his reservation, the nominee was asked to respond to two questions by Sen Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra). Former FCT minister, Mohammed Bello, appealed to the senators to allow him take a bow and go. He was supported by Sen Aliero. Why there’s infighting among service chiefs – Magashi A nominee from Kano, Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd) has said that the creation of office of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) laid the foundation for the rivalry and disagreement between the country’s service chiefs. He stated this while responding to a question by a former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia) on the infighting among the service chiefs. Magashi who is the only retired general among the nominees, said, “But as you rightly said, the operation between the service chiefs is not very cordial, I put that in quote. “The relationship has been in existence since the creation of the office of the CDS. In the process all of our operations that would have been conducted internally and externally are governed by the principles of the hierarchy of command.” “Today as you rightly said which I think is a common knowledge the service chiefs are trying to express their capabilities to the people who don’t know the operations,” he said. Speaking on Magashi, Sen Barau Jibrin (APC, Kano) described him as one of the leaders of Kano that are being cherished in the state. In his remarks, Lawan said in future the screening of nominees with security background would be done in an executive session for a thorough grilling on security matters. Revisit PIGB, Alasoadura tells Senators Senator Alasoadura has urged the senate to revisit the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) to strengthen the petroleum industry. The nominee who chaired the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Upstream) in the eighth Senate also requested for the reconsideration of Nigeria Nuclear Regulatory Agency Bill. Lawan said the Senate will swing into action when standing committees are constituted. Meanwhile, Sunday Dare, a nominee from Oyo State, Executive Commissioner of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) suggested ways to track kidnappers through mobile phones. He said it has to be collaborative efforts between the NCC, the NSA, DSS and the police. “Until the kidnapping is done, until phone call is made, no software to monitor 172 million users,” he said. Ogbeh, Dambazzau, Lai Mohammed, 7 others screened for ministerial positions Senate screens 6 more ministerial nominees as PDP Senators kick Senate screens 10 cabinet nominees Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin