The Sokoto State government is in intensive negotiations with bandits and other armed elements operating within the boundaries of the state. The Director General, Media and Public Affairs to Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Abubakar Shekara disclosed this to Daily Trust yesterday in Sokoto. According to Shekara, the talks had started yielding positive results with the release of a number of our people held captive by the bandits last Tuesday. “More progress will be achieved in the reconciliation, as many gunmen and their leaders are accepting to put down their weapons,” he said. He appealed to communities deserting their villages in fear of attacks in all parts of the state to remain in their areas, as the government has secured the commitment of bandits to cease their activities. Shekara further called on all communities in the state to avoid the harassment of their ‘Fulani brethren’ in their communities and local markets. “The peaceful coexistence for which our people are known should be maintained at all times,” he said Daily Trust learnt that some villages in Isa, Sabon Birnin and Goronyo local government areas had been deserted by their inhabitants over incessant attacks by bandits. Daily Trust reports that over 60 people have been killed by bandits in Sokoto this year. In January, 26 people were killed in Gandi district in Rabah local government area of the state. In February, another 16 people were killed in Dalijan, Rakkoni and Kalhu communities in the same LG. Also recently, 20 people were killed in Kamitau Mala Faru, Dan Tatsoko villages in Goronyo local government. Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal had while receiving a councillor, a nursing mother and eight other indigenes of the state freed by bandits in Zamfara State informed that negotiations were still ongoing among security agents, Zamfara State government, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) and the bandits to secure the release of other captives and usher in peace in the troubled areas of Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi and Katsina states. In Zamfara State, no fewer than 200 victims of kidnapping were rescued from bandits and other militia groups recently, according to the state police commissioner Usman Nagogo. The commissioner is part of the peace deal between armed bandits and local vigilante groups known as Yan Sakai in the state. He said though it would be naive to say attacks had stopped by 100 percent in Zamfara State, judging from the fact that banditry in the state had been going on for over ten years, in a space of three weeks the attacks were reduced to the barest minimum. “For the avoidance of doubt and clarity, between Saturday 20th and Sunday 21st of this month, a total number of 23 kidnapped victims were rescued and being treated at the government house medical facilities,” “The rescued victims will soon be reunited with their families in an elaborate ceremony by His Excellency the Executive Governor of Zamfara State Dr. Muhammad Bello Mutawalle,” he added. In Katsina State, also, Governor Aminu Bello Masari recently disclosed that the he was working with other state governors in the Northwest zone, affected by wanton killings and insecurity perpetrated by armed bandits, to consider dialogue and amnesty to bandits for peace to reign in the region. 3 Sokoto communities deserted over bandits’ threat 27 armed bandits repent in Sokoto How bandits terrorise villagers, motorists on Sokoto-Gusau road Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin