President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said reviving the educational sector with renewed focus on teaching valuable lessons like integrity in schools, will require giving priority to the welfare and training of teachers, who directly create the enabling environment for learning. Receiving a delegation from the Arewa House Centre for Historical Documentation and Research at the State House, Abuja, he said the quality of training, welfare and happiness of teachers directly impact on the quality of education children and adults get in schools. The president spoke against the backdrop of a proposal by the centre to start an annual, “Buhari Integrity Lecture Series’’. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “If it has to do with integrity, we must go back to history and try to assess the contribution of teachers to education, where teachers treated every child as their own in instilling discipline and sharing of knowledge. “I have been lucky to be in boarding school for nine years, three years in primary school and six years in secondary school before I joined the military. And if we are talking of good education, it has to start with the teaching in schools, where children grow and the environment of learning,” he said. He said the challenge of repositioning the educational sector and cultivating strong moral values in children goes beyond the northern part of Nigeria, and should be pursued holistically at a national level. “Your nomenclature is Arewa, but the problem of education is a national issue,’’ he said. In his remarks, the Director of Arewa House, Prof. Idris Shaaba Jimada, said “The Buhari Integrity Annual Lecture Series”, which would appraise the president’s position on morality and inspire more people to appreciate integrity as integral to Nigeria’s development. Bring back teacher training colleges Teachers facing ‘low status’ challenge FG committed to training of quality teachers-Adamu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin