A former Secretary to the Enugu State Government (SSG) and chieftain of APC, Chief Onyemuche Nnamani, has called for the expulsion of the party’s in Enugu State Chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye, for ridiculing President Muhammadu Buhari over his choice of former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, for reappointment. Nwoye had in a media report allegedly condemned the nomination of Onyeama, saying the president made a “mistake” in the composition of his cabinet. Also, Nwoye was said to have alleged that Onyeama was destroying the party in the state. “This is a man who has penchant for thuggery and pulling down of the party structure,” he was quoted to have said. But reacting to the comment, Nnamani asked the national leadership of the party to sack Nwoye because his statement was “a heinous anti-party act.” In a statement jointly signed by other chieftains of the party in the state, Nnamani condemned Nwoye’s accusation, which he said lacked credibility. “Nwoye’s statement is in serious breach of the party’s constitution, especially Article 21 Section A, Sub-section ii which states clearly that offences against the party include ‘any conduct which is likely to embarrass or have adverse effect on the party or bring the party into hatred, contempt, ridicule or disrepute,’” the statement read in part. “Saying that the president committed a ‘terrible mistake’ has not only ridiculed the party, but has also caused serious embarrassment to the president, and by extension, the entire members of the party. “Nwoye has decided to dance naked in the market square. The party must sanction him to serve as a deterrent to others who may wish to ridicule our party and the president for their own selfish gains,” the statement further read. 2019: Enugu APC has no alliance with PDC, APGA says Chairman Nwoye More reactions trail Nnamani’s defection to APC Nnamani, Enugu APC faction head deny attack on Nwoye Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin