The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) are flouting local contents prescription by refusing to patronize locally made textile products. The CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, stated this yesterday during a meeting with service chiefs, the police and paramilitary agencies. The meeting was one of CBN’s ongoing efforts to reawaken the local textile industries through the encouragement of local patronage of textile and garment companies. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Institutions represented at the meeting included the Army, Air Force, Navy, police, customs, Civil Defense and Immigration Service, among others. Also present where representatives of textile and garment companies. The CBN wants all Nigerian uniformed formations to use locally made fabrics for all their uniforms. “Our interactions with stakeholders show that the MDAs have not made any significant orders for uniforms or clothing materials from our local textiles and garment industries,” he said. He noted that the government efforts at resuscitating the textiles and garments industries will not actualize if it is not supported through local patronage and other incentives. He also said the refusal to patronize locally made textile products is a violation of Executive Order 003 which mandates local procurement of products that can be sourced locally. Mr. Emefiele also noted that, “if we patronize locally made textile products; If we revive the textiles and garment industries, we will improve the rural economy, create over 2 million jobs, improve internal revenues of the three tiers of government, reduce the over $4bn import bill incurred annually on textile imports and accelerate industrial development by making Nigeria a global player in the textile and apparel sector.” Speaking on some of the efforts being made to make Nigeria self-sufficient in textiles, he said “early this year, we flagged off the wet season cotton inputs distribution to over 150,000 cotton farmers in Katsina State. “The farmers are cultivating well over 200,000 hectares of cotton that will feed our ginneries and be used in high quality textiles in Nigeria for use by the armed forces and other uniformed personnel in Nigeria.” Development financing: In praise of Emefiele CBN’s bailout for textile industries Textile imports enough to fund budget deficit - Economist Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin