The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has constituted a committee to find out why the party’s members in the National Assembly flouted its directives on election of principal officers in both chambers of the legislature. The panel, headed by former Senate president Adolphus Wabara, is also saddled with the task of finding out whether the ruling All Progressives Congress (APÇ) influenced the decision taken by the PDP lawmakers. Inaugurating the committee on behalf of the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus at the PDP National Secretariat, yesterday in Abuja, the party’s Deputy National Chairman (South), Elder Yomi Akinwumi, said the committee had three weeks to submit its report to the NWC. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “What we are doing is a display of internal democracy,” he said. “This is the advantage PDP has over other political parties in Nigeria. This is what brought us to the level we are – respect for internal democracy. “We solve issues by dialogue, by discussions, by looking at the two sides of the coin. This you will never find in other political parties in Nigeria. “We want to use this opportunity to call on them (committee members) to come and look at the nomination of the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives and advise us accordingly. “We have confidence in you. What we are doing here has the approval of the NWC and NEC, the second highest organ of the party. You can go into the nitty gritty of what happened and advise the party appropriately. You have done it before and we believe you will do it again,” he said. Wabara on behalf of his colleagues promised to deliver on the assignment to avoid division among its members in the National Assembly. PDP raises probe panel over election of  N/Assembly officers Crack in PDP as NWC, stakeholders disagree over reform conference How governors fought attempt to whittle down their influence in PDP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin