The Madrasatul Sheikh Ja’afar Mahmud Adam Lid-dirasatil Islamiyyah at Anguwar Sabon-Tasha Abaji has graduated 11 students on Saturday. The school’s head teacher, Malam Muhammad A. Ismail noted that the graduation of the eleven students was also through the efforts and support of their parents, which he said were supportive to the Islamic centre. The headteacher congratulated the graduating students and urged them to always devote their time to reciting Qur’an so that they also impart younger ones. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Also speaking at the occasion, the chairman of the council,  Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya represented by the council secretary, Alhaji Kamal Adamu Shuaibu, congratulated the students for finding time to concentrate on learning Qur’an and Hadith, saying they should not see their graduation as the end. “Most importantly, what is required of all of you, the graduands, is that you should be reciting the Qur’an every day so that the younger ones too will impact knowledge from all you,” he said. The chairman, therefore, called on other parents to encourage their children to acquire Islamic knowledge adding that such knowledge will help children desist from engaging in immorality or social vices. The chairman was presented with a “Humanitarian Award” for his humanitarian contributions to the council’s development and selfless service to humanity and Islam by the grand patron of the Islamiyya school, Malam Mukaila Wakili. City News reports that prizes and certificates were also presented to the graduating students.  Madrasa graduates 14 students ‘Encourage your children to acquire Islamic knowledge’ Centre for Islamic Excellence graduates 95 in Abaji Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin