The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has reiterated its commitment to zero tolerance for all forms of violence against women and girls in the FCT. FCTA Permanent Secretary, Sir, Chinyeaka Ohaa, who stated this while declaring open a two-day workshop to launch the EU-UN Joint Spotlight Initiative in the FCT, said the worst form of violence is against the vulnerable in the society, mostly women and girls. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the FCTA, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, quoted Ohaa as saying, “It is about time that we all wake up and not only speak against this unconscionable evil but also take concrete action against it. Keeping silent only emboldens the aggressors and perpetrates the circle of violence and repression”. He further said, negative social norms which condone or support violence against women and girls and harmful practices remain pervasive. The permanent secretary frowned against child marriage, female genital mutilation and reproductive organ ailments such as VVF. Sir Ohaa described the Spotlight Initiative as a new global multi-year initiative focused on eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls, explaining that it was so named because “it brings focused attention to this issue and efforts to achieve gender equality and women empowerment”. He also said the initiative was timely, apt and in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adding that the six pilot states identified for the take-off of the programme in the six geopolitical zones and the FCT, is a welcome spread that would achieve a balanced intervention across the zones and thereafter replicated in all states of the federation. The EU-UN Joint Spotlight Initiative, Sir Ohaa stated will also, amongst other things, build on and scale up its efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls.  Over 20 Abuja orphanages operate without licence FCTA tasks stakeholders on peaceful, credible polls Lokogoma estate: FCTA issues quit notice to owners of houses on waterways Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin