The Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) in collaboration with the National Orientation Agency (NOA) has urged Nigerians to report corrupt public officials. The Executive Secretary of PACAC, Prof Sadiq Radda, said there was need for Nigerians to checkmate the activities of public office holders to prevent them from embezzling funds. Speaking on Tuesday in Uyo during a one-day Public Education/Citizens Enlightenment programme, Radda said it is the collective responsibility of Nigerians to support the fight against corruption by reporting corrupt practices to the relevant authority for prompt action. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We are all aware that corruption has done serious damage to our country. Therefore, any effort aimed at tackling corruption will never be a waste of time. “Since the Federal Government came into power in 2015, it has demonstrated its willingness to fight corruption in Nigeria; it is one of the campaign promises of the present government. “Fighting corruption requires the effort of the federal, state and local government. In fact, fighting corruption requires effort of individuals, families, communities, organisation and agencies. In other words, the fight against corruption is a collective responsibility of all of us. “We should pay attention to what happens at the state and local government so that the money coming from the federal government to the state and local government is used for the good of the general population,” he said. In his opening remarks, the State Director, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Mr Enoh Uyoh said the programme was aimed at providing a road map in tackling corruption in the country. Uyoh said that the agency would continue to consistently enlighten and mobilise the public on government programs, policies and activities. Earlier, the Chairman of the occasion, Prof Femi Odekunle said that government at the federal, state and local government must intensify the investigation, detection and prosecution of stolen assets. ‘Corrupt leaders planning to enslave Nigerians’ Wanted, a national anti-corruption strategy LGAs to get financial autonomy in June – Professor Radda Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin