More than 100 students of the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, yesterday stormed the Igbosere chief magistrate court, Lagos, to demand the release of their three colleagues facing a three-count charge bordering on assault. The students, who arrived at the court premises in a Toyota Coaster bus, crowded outside the court protesting, and demanding the release of the colleagues, Ojeogwu Samuel, 23; Lawrence Danii, 18; and 36-year- old Jerry Azenabor. In a chat with Daily Trust, one of the protesting students said that the embattled students were in an Uber cab when they witnessed an accident involving a motorcyclist. The students were said to have rushed to the scene to help the accident victims. The student didn’t give further details. But the police prosecutor, Inspector Philip Osgale, alleged that the accused persons, on July 26, 2019 at about 8am, conspired to commit assault at Chisco Roundabout, Ikate, Lekki, in Eti-Osa local government, Lagos State. Osgale alleged that the men assaulted and obstructed Assistant Superintendent Sule Madaki, who was on traffic control at Chisco Roundabout, Ikate-Lekki, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 174 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State 2015. The police further alleged that the students conducted themselves in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by doing a video recording of ASP Madaki and instigating a mob action against him. The three accused persons all pleaded not guilty to the three-count criminal charge the police levelled against them. Magistrate Aro Lambo admitted each of the accused persons to N100,000 bail, with one responsible surety in like sum. Trial in the matter has been fixed for August 22, 2019. At the time of filing this report, sureties for the suspects were seen making frantic efforts to perfect the bail conditions.  Alleged assault by LASU VC sparks students' protest Protests mar May Day rally in Lagos ASUU leads protest against LASU VC, grinds State Assembly Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin