Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has assured members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) posted to the state of maximum security and improved welfare. Tambuwal stated this in Wamakko, Sokoto, on Monday at the closing ceremony of the 2019 Batch B, Stream 1 Orientation Exercise of the corps members. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to State Government, Alhaji Sa’idu Umar, urged them to be law-abiding, shun provocative dressing, associate freely and respect the culture and tradition of their host communities. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He charged the corps members to continue to work for the unity of Nigeria, explore its potentials for growth and development and utilise the skills they learnt in camp to set up viable ventures. The governor also advised them to promote tolerance and understanding among Nigerians and serve as change agents in addressing the nation’s problems and challenges. “The nation is faced with enormous challenges of development and meeting them needs collective efforts,’’ Tambuwal added. Also, the Chairman of the state NYSC Governing Board, Alhaji Abubakar Ladan, noted that the corps members had demonstrated exemplary conduct during the orientation exercise and expressed the hope that they would not relent in their endeavours. Ladan urged them to join forces with government in fighting corruption, drug abuse and other social vices in the country. He said that those who distinguished themselves during the service year would receive awards from the state government and Sultan of Sokoto, Dr Sa’ad Abubakar. Ladan however, warned that there would be sanctions against any corps member found wanting. The State NYSC Coordinator, Mr Philip Enaberue, said 95 per cent of the corps members had been posted to teach in schools in order to support the state government in its efforts to revamp the education sector. (NAN) Don''t lose focus, build Nigeria of your dreams, Tambuwal tells  youths Join forces with govt to fight corruption, NYSC Board Chairman tells corps members Outgoing youth corps members honour Tambuwal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin