Two opposition parties in Cross River State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and African Action Congress (AAC), have warned Governor Ben Ayade not to touch local government funds. The warning came in the wake of Ayade’s alleged secret meeting with heads of local government administration (HOLGA) where he purportedly appealed to them to allow him continue to use the funds to pay workers’ salaries. A statement from state chairman of AAC, Agba Jalingo, said “The African Action Congress is calling on Governor Ben Ayade to resist the temptation of tampering with local government funds. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We are aware that following the implementation of the directives of the National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), the allocations for local governments have been paid into the accounts of the councils. “We are also aware that in a bid to access these funds, Governor Ayade is meeting the heads of local government administrations in order to attempt the regularization of their signatures in order to collect these monies,” he claimed. Jalingo encouraged  HOLGA to resist any attempt by the governor to circumvent or go against any directives of the Federal Government. “If the governor can’t pay salaries without local government funds, let him conduct local government elections,” the statement said. The chairman of APC John Ochala said it would be wicked and criminal of the governor to lure the workers to a secret meeting in order to twist their hands and misappropriate the LG fund. APC, AAC kick as Ayade insists on having access to LG funds Labour, opposition scold Ayade over $70,000 beauty pageantry Ayade would be welcomed in APC — Health minister Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin