Officials of the Kano State Hizbah Board are on the trail of a couple who recently engaged and got married on Facebook. A 29-year-old man, Sanusi Abdullahi, said in an interview with BBC Hausa that it began as a joke when he engaged a girl while chatting on Facebook with other chat members. “We were just chatting on a Facebook page with other group members when the girl proposed that I should marry her  and I accepted, after a while she sent in another message that she had got a Wali (representative of her parents) that would give her out in marriage, and a friend of mine said he would be my representative. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We agreed on a N20,000 dowry, and then the Islamic legal marital agreement was entered into by our representatives,” he said. Abdullahi added that shortly after that, he heard a rumour that he was married, which made him call the girl to tell her that it appeared that the marriage truly held, but that they should consult scholars for confirmation. “We made some inquiries and some ulamas confirmed the marriage, saying all the prerequisites of marriage were fulfilled. But when we contacted Sheikh Ibrahim Daurawa, he said the marriage was invalid since there was no consent of parents of the bride,” he added. Abdullahi said he was having sleepless nights as a result of the incident because the parents of the girl were annoyed, especially as she was to get married to a suitor in a few months. The spokesman of Kano State Shari’ah Commission, Sanusi Muhammad, said the commission had directed the Hizbah board to arrest them in order to serve as a deterrent. “What they did is against the dictates of Shari’ah and the next line of action after their arrest is to arraign them before a court of law for prosecution,” he said. Is social networking the new face of marriage? How Esther became Hajiya Rabi: A love story Glitz on Kano’s day of 100 brides Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin