The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, has said the time for Nigerians to shelve political party differences and work collectively to move the country forward is now. Speaking at the grand reception and unveiling of the “strategic senatorial action plan” of the Senator representing Niger East, Alhaji Sani Musa, on Saturday in Minna, Lawan said the senate leadership was exploring measures where members of contending political parties would work harmoniously for the betterment of the country. He said the 9th Senate was already setting the example and showing direction on how institutions could work together for greater good irrespective of party differences. “We came under different platforms, but we have been able to overcome party differences and it is now time to move on and make Nigeria a better place,” he pointed. He said the senate leadership had been able to achieve great deal of peace because they saw themselves as brothers and sisters regardless of party affiliation, while urging other Nigerians to do the same. “We are united on the need to have security situation improve, to have our roads fixed and pay greater attention to other infrastructure to make lives better for Nigerians,” he noted. Also speaking at the event, the Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, called on the opposition PDP senators on the need to cooperate with their APC counterparts for the overall interest of the country. “We must put party differences behind to move the country forward. You are senators of the federal republic and not senators of APC or PDP; this is very important,” he explained. Earlier, Sen. Sani Musa, while unveiling his “strategic senatorial action plan” for his senatorial district, promised to make education his top priority, saying that “there cannot be dedicated youths without education.” Emergence of Ahmed Lawan as Senate President excites Yobe people Senate Presidency: PDP senator declares support for Ahmad Lawan When will Saraki visit Villa? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin