Some chieftains of the All Grassroots Alliance (AGA) have purportedly suspended the Chairman of the party, Dr. James Oshiariyo, till further notice over alleged acts of indiscipline and violation of internal democracy. The Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Obi Mac-Wilson, made this known at a news conference after the party’s NEC meeting in Abuja. Chief Mac-Wilson said after consultations during the NEC meeting, the party unanimously agreed to appoint Titus Joshua from Adamawa State as the acting chairman of the party till further notice. He said this was in accordance with the constitution of the party, adding that AGA would continue to uphold and abide by the constitution to encourage internal democracy. “After the party’s NEC meeting, we unanimously resolved and agreed to suspend the Chairman, James Oshiariyo, and appoint Titus Joshua from Adamawa as the acting chairman of the party till further notice. Arch. Anagha Ndukwo, the AGA senatorial candidate of Abia North in the last general elections, said a situation where the national chairman of the party would testify at a tribunal and support an opposition was abnormal. But another section of the leadership passed a vote of confidence on Oshiariyo, the Treasurer, Rev. Dr. Mrs. Helen Amuzie-James and other members of the NEC of the party. This was part of a resolution from the recently held factional AGA NEC meeting held at its national secretariat in Gwagwalada, FCT, where members commended the party’s secretariat for complying with deadline for submission of party financial report to INEC as required by law. In a statement, Dr. Oshiariyo and Deputy National Secretary, Raphael Oloruntoba, condemned the alleged “irrational invasion of the party’s national secretariat by suspected political thugs on Thursday, July 18, 2019.” Also, the factional NEC had approved the purported expulsion of Durojaiye Adewale, Engr. Bamide Orubuloye and Arc. Anagha Ndukwo from the party, while Prince Julius Otiji, national secretary, was placed on indefinite suspension pending determination of alleged anti-party activities and insubordination. Grassroots party suspends nat’l chair Disquiet as PDP chairmanship crises deepen When APGA told members bitter truth and demanded restructuring Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin