A total of 15,193 Nigerian pilgrims have so far arrived in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for pilgrimage from 31 flights, Daily Trust reports. The pilgrims are from the FCT, Oyo, Osun, Ogun, Gombe, Katsina, Kano, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Sokoto, Zamfara, and Lagos States. Meanwhile, more Nigerian pilgrims, especially from Lagos, yesterday left Madinah for Makkah to observe ‘Umrah before the obligatory Hajj. Hajj is one of the important pillars of Islam for those who have financial and physical capacities. The Chief Imam of Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Dr Alhassan Yaqub, has advised Nigerian pilgrims to honour Madinah, the city of Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAW) by relating with one another with decorum. Dr Yaqub, who is one of National Ulama Team to 2019 Hajj, gave the advice yesterday during a brief orientation session with pilgrims from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. He urged the pilgrims to help one another and visit the historic sites such as Masjid Nabawiyy (Prophet’s Mosque), Masjid Quba, and Mount Uhud among others. He said one rakat of prayers (Salat) observed in Prophet’s Mosque in Madinah is equivalent to 1000 rakaat of prayers in any other mosque apart Masjid (Mosque) Haram in Makkah. He therefore implored the pilgrims to pray for themselves, their families, the country, and the leaders. He said, “This city of Madinah is one of the holiest cities in the world apart from Makkah. When you arrive in Madinah, you are honoured. One prayer in Masjid Nabawiyy is equivalent to 1000 prayers anywhere else in the world except Masjid Haram in Makkah. Head of Civic Orientation for National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Alhaji Umar Bala, advised the pilgrims again to deal with their officials on issues concerning money exchange and gold tooth fixing to avoid falling victims of dubious people. Alhaji Bala said the commission had put in place everything that would make them enjoy their stay in Madinah. 2019 Hajj: Behave with decorum, cleric urges Nigerian pilgrims Hajj: Five Nigerians confirmed dead in Saudi Hajj 2019: 6,856 Nigerian pilgrims in Madinah, says NAHCON Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin