Unrealistic demands by the Senior Staff Union members were responsible for the delay in the implementation of the New National Minimum Wage, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoCSF), Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, has said. She said this on Monday in Abuja at the two-day “Retreat for top management staff of the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF), Manpower Development Institutes (MDIs) and Federal Training Centres (FTCs). The retreat was on the 2017-2020 Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP), meant to drive the transformation of the Nigerian civil service in line with global standard. She also said that a Presidential Committee on Consequential Adjustment has been set up for smooth execution of the minimum wage and that negotiations were on between the government and the unions. “President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to implementing the new national minimum wage and that is why the presidential committee on the consequential adjustment arising from the minimum wage has been sitting to deliberate on it. And in fact, has sat with the union leadership within the public service to come out with the consequential adjustment arising from the new minimum wage. “There were a few, what I will call unrealistic demands from the unions. So as not to continue delaying the implementation of the very dear policy of Mr President, we had to go ahead and seek his approval to implement the minimum wage effective from April,” Oyo-Ita said. Also, the Permanent Secretary, Service Policies and Strategies Office (SPSO), Dr. Magdalene Ajani, in her welcome address, said the retreat was designed to sensitize participants on the implementation of 2017-2020 FCSSIP. On her part, the Director-General, Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Mrs. Cecilia Gayya, said the college appreciated the vision of the OHCSF for developing a strategic document for human capacity building for civil servants. Minimum wage: Unrealistic demands by unions delaying implementation, says Oyo-Ita Minimum wage: FG gives 22-man committee four weeks to submit report Minimum wage: FG gives c’ttee 4 weeks to adjust workers’ salaries Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin