The Chairman of the Abaji branch of the Motorcycle Transport Union of Nigeria, Isah Zakar, has been found dead in his apartment. A relative of the deceased, while speaking with our reporter, yesterday, said the incident happened around 10:pm on Sunday, when the deceased was asleep in his room. He said Zakar complained of headache and  went to a nearby pharmacy to get some drugs at about 9:30pm and came back to lie down on his bed. According to him, the deceased’s wife Mallama Safiya woke up at night to check on the health condition of her husband and discovered that he was dead. “It was the wife that went to check on him in his bedroom after the deceased took a dose of drugs given to him, and discovered that her husband was dead,” he said. He added that the deceased’s wife called neighbours who came to convey him to Abaji General Hospital where doctors confirmed him dead. He said the remains of the deceased was buried around 8am yesterday at the Muslim cemetery in the area. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, has expressed shock and sadness over the death of the motorcycle union chairman in the area. Ajiya, in a statement by his press secretary, Adamu Haruna,  registered his condolence to the family of the deceased over the death. He described the late motorcycle union chairman as a gentle and committed man who had always ensured peace and harmony among members of the motorcycle riders in the area. He prayed for the soul of the deceased to rest in peace. He also urged the deceased family to see the death as natural, saying every human being must taste death. Security guard beheaded in Kwali Bizzare as husband, wife, son die in Ikorodu apartment How female lawyer killed, mutilated hubby’s body – Witnesses Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin