The Supreme Court has dismissed a motion by the Zamfara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) seeking to review its judgment voiding the votes of the party in the March, 2019, governorship election in the state. A five-member panel of justices unanimously held that by virtue of Section 8(16) of the Supreme Court Rules, the apex court could not sit on appeal in its own judgment. The court presided by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour also ruled that the 60 days provided by Section 285(12) of the Nigerian Constitution having expired, the Supreme Court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the appeal. The apex court also observed that the motion by the state APC faction against Senator Kabiru Marafa and 178 others was incompetent, having failed to attach all the copies of the judgement. The apex court said the procedure was “abnormal” and “incurably incompetent.” The apex court upheld the argument of Counsel to the Marafa faction, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), in dismissing the application by Counsel to the APC, Robert Clarke (SAN). The Supreme Court had in the judgement delivered on May 24, held that the APC in Zamfara failed to conduct primaries in accordance with the party rules. In the lead judgment delivered by Justice Paul Adamu Galinje, the apex court declared all votes cast for the APC as “wasted votes” and directed that all political parties with the second highest votes in the elections and the required spread were elected to the various positions. The development favoured the opposition PDP which now occupies the governorship and National Assembly seats, as well as 99 per cent of the state assembly seats. Zamfara governorship: Supreme court dismisses APC's motion to review verdict Zamfara APC: S/Court decides fate of candidates May 24 NEWS FLASH: Zamfara Election: Supreme court voids votes for APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin