An aviation analyst, Alexander Nwuba, has said the Federal Government should make $1bn available to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to erect electronic fencing around the airport perimeter fencing nationwide. This followed last Friday’s incursion into the runway by a man later identified as a Nigerien who is currently in the custody of the Lagos Airport command of the police. Nwuba, who is the Managing Director of Smile Air, said FAAN’s response to the incident was quick, especially in taking responsibility. He, however, said the airport would require $1bn for new electronic fencing, close circuit television monitoring and tracking system. According to him, there should be better access control systems and training of personnel. “Now, we just need to give the authority $1bn for new electronic fencing, CCTV monitoring and tracking systems, equipment to cut the grass and open up spaces,” he said. Daily Trust learnt that as part of the review of the incident, a major overhaul in the security would take place this week. Besides, the authority has further beefed up security in and around the airport to prevent any further breach. Meanwhile, as investigation continues, a senior AVSEC official told our correspondent that the intruder must have gained access to the tarmac through the perimeter fencing area in Shasha. According to him, the proximity of many buildings to the airport and the encroachment on airport land has made the vicinity susceptible to incursion. A former Commandant of the MMA, retired Group Capt. John Ojikutu, however queried the suspension of the security heads, saying the decision was hasty. He said, “my understanding is that the act of incursion on the aircraft took place about the holding point; this is an area close to the airport perimeter fence. This area is generally porous…” Stakeholders task FAAN on security at airports House of Reps Committee on Public Procurement begins tour of aviation agencies Group lauds MD FAAN for improved operation in Airports Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin