National Auditor of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief George Moghalu, says the ruling party will perform better in 2023 in the South East geo-political zone going by the outcome of the 2019 general elections where it polled over 400,000 votes in the presidential ballot compared to 198,000 in 2015. Moghalu, in an interview with journalists in Abuja, said the result was an indication of new consciousness among the citizens in the zone. He said the party had to consider the need for balancing in the distribution of principal positions in the National Assembly among the six-geo-political zones despite the fact that his region did not ‘play right politics’. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Moghalu said the party considered numbers in taking final position on the personalities to occupy the positions of Senate Leader and House Leader. He urged those asking President Muhammadu Buhari to constitute his cabinet to exercise patience, stating that the ministers will soon be appointed as stressed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). “I will answer your question by throwing one question. Has government stopped functioning? Government has not stopped functioning and government is also conscious of the fact that ministers will be appointed. “These are exclusive preserve of Mr President. So, I’m confident that ministers will soon be appointed because there is no timeline now that he has breached constitutional provision – that he must appoint minister one week after swearing-in or two weeks after swearing-in. He may be taking his time to get the right people,” he added. The APC national official said President Buhari had not failed to address the security challenges if the current situation was compared to what was happening before this government came on board. He said the security agencies needed the support of the citizens to play their responsibilities by supplying information to get rid of criminal elements in the society. APC will intervene in NASS leadership – Moghalu APC national auditor wants laws against defection APC meets to decide on transition, zoning Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin