The PDP in Kano has declared that it intends to call 378 witnesses to testify before the gubernatorial election petitions tribunal sitting in Kano. The lead counsel to the petitioners, Chief Adegboyega Asiwaju Awomolo (SAN), stated this during the pre-trial conference held at the venue of the tribunal. On its part, INEC which is the 1st Respondent had through its lead counsel, Ahmed Raji Saka (SAN), said it had 29 witnesses to present before the tribunal. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The 2nd and 3rd respondents, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and APC respectively, through their lead counsels, Offiong Offiong (SAN), and Barrister Christopher Oshiomole, declared that they had 203 and 300 witnesses to testify respectively. Earlier, the petitioner’s lead counsel had filed a motion seeking to “correct some errors” in the list of witnesses he presented before the tribunal. He argued that the correction was neither an attempt to amend or alter the facts and prayers in the petition, nor seeking for additional time to file additional witnesses, but rather to correct some errors in the list of witnesses that already had their statement on oath before the tribunal. The respondents, however, objected to the application, arguing that the list of witnesses and statements on oath of witnesses were integral part of the petition and must accompany the petition the way it was filed. They held that any attempt to amend the list of witness would be regarded as an attempt to amend the petition itself, the time of which had elapsed. The presiding judge, Justice Halima S. Muhammed, adjourned the sitting of the tribunal to tomorrow for ruling on the pending application and the report of the pre-trial conference. el-Rufai: PDP heads to Appeal Court as Tribunal declines forensic expert testimony Omisore’s petition scales into pre-trial at Osun tribunal A/Ibom: Tribunal stops Akpabio from tendering witness voters card Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin