Some students of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Ijebu Ode, Ogun state on Wednesday reportedly confronted operatives of the Nigerian Police Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) who came with a Toyota Camry car to make arrest. One of the students told Daily Trust that students confronted the operatives numbering four to challenge their presence on campus and attempted to attack the operatives. Our correspondent gathered that the SARS operatives who sensed danger reportedly shot intermittently into the air to disperse the students and later escaped through various directions. The aggrieved students, however, burnt the Toyota Camry car which conveyed the police to the campus. The Students’ Union Government (SUG) President, Olamide Adeboun, in a statement described the incident as wrongful act, saying they (SARS operatives) attempted to make an arrest without informing the school authority. “Men of Special-Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) pursued some sets of individuals believed to be students of our university from Ijebu Ode to the university community. This is absolutely wrong irrespective of the basis. The university will never harbour criminal and criminal will not attempt to seek solace in the university. “It is very wrong for any security agent to enter the university community uninvited by the university authority. It becomes so wrong for them to attempt to initiate an arrest within the university without the approval of the university authority. “The University have trained and identified security men mainly for the maintenance of our internal security,” he said. Police spokesman in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident, but added that investigation is ongoing. “Although, the case is under investigation because we want to know if the Policemen complied with the procedure that is expected of them before entering into any government institution; and if it is discovered that they did not go through the right process, they will be sanctioned. “The incident is true, some policemen were attacked but we also want to caution the students to stop taking laws into their hands,” Oyeyemi said. Ogun varsity students attack SARS trailing ‘Yahoo boy’ LAUTECH student, 15 others arrested for alleged robbery, cultism ...arrest fake SARS operative Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin