Two security guards working at Saint Augustine Catholic church in Kaduna have been arrested by police following an attack on the church on Friday. The two, who are being detained at Unguwar Sanusi police station, were absent from their duty posts on the day of the attack. Arewa Trust gathered that the incident happened around 11 30 pm before the arrival of the two guards on night duty. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE A security guard at the church, who doesn’t want his name mentioned, said the attackers took away  electric wires and vandalised the windows of an empty apartment within the premises. “Well it was some suspected miscreants that came into the church and removed electric wires and set the church pulpit on fire and left. They also vandalised and removed the windows at the father’s apartment. “It was some  students from Kaduna Polytechnic who rushed and put out the fire,” he said. He said the police took away the two guards to their station for questioning. Meanwhile, the state government, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Samuel Aruwan condemned the incident and said security agencies are investigating. He said three persons were arrested in connection with the attack and assured the residents that there would be diligent prosecution of any one indicted by the investigation. “Kaduna State Government has condemned the arson attack on St. Augustine’s Catholic Church, Tudun-Wada. The government has directed a comprehensive investigation of this assault on the right to freedom of worship. Governor Nasir El’rufai also visited the church and promised to settle the damages in the church. Killers of German doctor still on the run Curfew after Adamawa serial killings Kaduna’s deserted observation posts Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin