Experts at the CSL Stockbroking firm have said signing the trade agreement will introduce undue competition for local manufacturers who are struggling to achieve production efficiency and market reach. “This may ultimately lead to a loss of local employment creation opportunities to other African countries that are making giant strides in industrial development’’, they said in a statement. They said, while they believe operating a closed economy and encouraging trade protectionism is not conducive for continental growth, they are also of the view that local manufacturers still need some form of protection from external competitors who have more favourable operating environments in their respective countries OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We believe the AfCTA deal will provide opportunities for foreign manufacturers in those African countries to have better access to the Nigerian market without having to set up operations in Nigeria. With Asian and European companies setting up operations in other African countries, exporting goods to Nigeria might become easier with AfCTA, hence further weakening local industrial growth.” Meanwhile, the African Union (AU) Trade Policy Ambassador, Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, has urged Nigeria to be committed to the internal processes of implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), which the country recently signed. In a statement yesterday, the expert called on the government to note that all hands must on the deck to ensure that the Organised Private Sector (OPS) is involved in all the steps of the Agreement. Prince Kayode, who is also the President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), said the signing of the pact was just but one of the steps towards benefitting from the policy. He said President Muhammadu Buhari has done the most significant aspect of it and it is now imperative for the OPS to be comprehensively integrated into the agenda. Nigeria has huge capacity to produce raw materials – Ahmed, MAN president Manufacturers decry FG’s insistence to sign AfCFTA Nobel Peace Prize winner demands action against sexual violence Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin