The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila on Thursday named 105 standing committees of the 9th House shortly before the lawmakers proceeded on annual recess. Our correspondent takes a look at who gets what in the chairmanship of so-called “juicy” committees, as well as top gainers and losers in the attendant intrigues. A most noticeable highlight of Speaker Gbajabiamila’s announcement of chairmen and deputy chairmen of 105 standing committees of the 9th House of Representatives last Thursday was the conspicuous absence of the name of Abdulmumin Jibrin ( APC, Kano) in the list. Jibrin was not only the Director-General of Femi/Wase Campaign Council but also superintended, to a reasonable extent, the allocation of the headship of various committees to the lawmakers, a source  told Daily Trust on Sunday. Why then his name was missing? Again, the reliable source, who pleaded anonymity confirmed that Jibrin, a three term lawmaker, would be leaving the House of Representatives soon to head an influential federal government agency. “You know, the Campaign DG, Jibrin was seriously considered for a ministerial slot for Kano State but was dropped at the last minute as a result of pressures from some quarters. “On why he did not make the Committees’ list, I can tell you that he is leaving the House soon for a bigger role, in fact, to head a big federal government agency the name I cannot mention to you now,” the source said. That line of thought was corroborated by a member of the House ad hoc Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau) who told newsmen on Friday that Jibrin was indeed heading for a bigger role in government, but stopped short of naming the exact role or what it entails. According to him, “There have been media reports as to why the name of the campaign DG was missing from the list of committees announced by the speaker yesterday (Thursday). “Well, let me tell you that he is going to get something bigger very soon. I think that puts to rest the insinuations,” Gagdi announced. Apart from the absence of Jibrin’s name from the list, other vocal, ranking lawmakers, mostly from the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who chaired influential committees in the Yakubu Dogara led 8th House, also had their names missing from the list. These include Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers), who had earlier been shortlisted for the PDP leadership for the position of Minority Leader but was shocked  in the last minute by the announcement of Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta) by Speaker Gbajabiamila. Chinda was the Chairman of the influential Public Acccounts Committee (PAC) in the 8th House, and has no doubt, remained one of the most vocal and consistent opposition voices in the House. Apart from Chinda, other ranking lawmakers, who had held top committee chairmanship in the 8th House but are now left without portfolios include Tajudeen  Yusuf (PDP, Kogi); Mark Gbillah (PDP, Benue), Nkem Abonta (PDP, Abia); Ajibola Muraina (PDP, Oyo); Chukwuka Onyema (PDP, Anambra); Yakubu Barde (PDP, Kaduna). However, some of the ranking opposition lawmakers were given committees considered as inferior to the ones they occupied in the 8th House. For instance, Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta), who headed the sensitive House committee on Ethics and Privileges in the previous 8th House, will now chair the Committee on Treaties and Protocols. Incidentally, the Ossai-led Ethics and Privileges Committee recommended Jibirin for suspension in the midst of the budget padding allegations in the Dogara-led 8th House. Recall also that in the run up to the speakership election, the Jibrin-led Femi/Wase Campaign informed journalists that it had sealed a deal to cede 60 of the 105 committees to the opposition PDP.  Eventually however, PDP lawmakers only got 30 Committee chairs while those from other opposition parties secured 15, making 45. Again, Gagdi insisted the Gbajabiamila leadership was magnanimous to have allotted 30 committee chairs to the PDP lawmakers, “deal or no deal.” Yet, a ranking PDP lawmaker whose name was also missing from the list of Committee Chairmen told Daily Trust on Sunday that he had never lobbied for, nor expected to be given any committee chairmanship. “My brother, this is a winner-takes-all world. So, I didn’t even expect to be given any committee chairmanship. I didn’t lobby for it, and I don’t care. This is National Assembly. I owe nobody nothing,” he said. Whereas the Chinda-led group of PDP lawmakers could be counted among losers in the allocation of committee positions, same could not be said of the Elumelu-led PDP members, who are often referred to as “renegades” for going against the party’s choice of leaders in the 9th House. This is also not surprising given that most members of the Elumelu group also campaigned vigorously for Gbajabiamila and Wase as Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively. For instance, Idu Igariwey (PDP, Ebonyi) landed the Deputy Chairmanship of the influential House Committee on Appropriations; Linda Ikpeazu (PDP, Anambra) was given Chairman of the House Committee on NIMASA, previously chaired by Umar Bago (APC, Niger); Jerry Alagbaoso (PDP, Imo) chairs House Committee on Public Petitions previously under Nkem-Abonta; while Wole Oke (PDP, Osun), chairs PAC. As promised, the Speaker kept his words with erstwhile speakership contenders who stepped down for him in the twilight of the campaigns. The Chairman of the influential House Committee on Appropriations ended in the hands of Mukhtar Baitara (APC, Borno) while Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa) is to chair House Committee on Army, previously under Rimande Shawulu (PDP, Taraba). The Speaker’s men such as James Faleke (APC, Lagos) got Finance; Babajimi Benson (APC, Lagos) got Defence while Wale Raji (APC, Lagos) landed the House Committee on House Services. Besides, another key highlight was the substitution of the names of “landlord” chairmen of key committees with new names, even fresh, unranked lawmakers. For instance, Musa Sarkin-Adar (APC, Sokoto) clinched the Chairman, House committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream). However, chairmen of Petroleum Resources (Downstream) and Gas Resources went to South-South lawmakers, with Nicholas Mutu emerging chairman Gas Resources. For the first time, Chairman of House Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), which had been perpetually occupied by Nicholas Mutu (PDP, Delta) went to first time lawmaker, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo (APC, Ondo). Other first timers, namely Onofiok Luke, immediate past Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, is to oversee Federal Judiciary, just as Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia), takes charge of Media and Public Affairs Committee (House spokesman). Lawmakers lobby as Lawan, Gbajabiamila set to name c’ttee heads Jibrin missing as Gbajabiamila names chairs for committees Reps scramble for  ‘juicy’ committees Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin