It is high time the Federal Government reviewed its over 90 bilateral air service agreements (BASAs) it signed with foreign countries to make them reciprocal and support the growth of Nigerian airlines, aviation stakeholders said yesterday. They said government must wake up from its slumber and come up with sustainable policy frameworks to grow the aviation sector. President of Aviation Roundtable and Safety Initiative, Dr. Gabriel Olowo said Nigeria needs stable legal and regulatory frameworks to grow the industry. He along with other aviation stakeholders spoke at the 23rd Annual Conference and Award ceremony organized by the League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC) in Lagos. The conference chaired by the Managing Director/CEO of Med-View Airline, Alhaji Muneer Bankole had as its theme, “Boosting Aviation Investment through Policy”. Olowo decried the multiple entry points for foreign airlines, describing it as “disastrous and deliberate annihilation of the domestic market.” He said a situation where some airlines fly to multiple airports in Nigeria without any Nigerian airline reciprocating is “a negative balance of trade.” “The essence of regulation is not only about safety. We have failed with economic regulations. This is a major weakness,” he said. President of African Airlines Association, Mr. Nick Fadugba said a situation where 90 per cent of the Nigerian market was controlled by non-Nigerian airline “is damaging to the economy.” “Nigeria needs to urgently review its BASA policy. An air route is like an oil bloc. You don’t just give it out without something in return, “ he added. He said Nigeria deserves a national carrier with minority government shareholding and it must be done transparently and skilfully with knowledgeable individuals. Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Bankole said overbearing government intervention and policy inconsistency caused the nosediving of the aviation sector. Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema said the government has no option but to support the Nigerian airlines to thrive and protect jobs of thousands of Nigerians in their employ.  Why Nigerian airlines die Aviation stakeholders flay plans for new national carrier Investors deserve respects from public servants, officials – Air Peace CEO Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin