The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has banned the direct connection of electricity consumers to 33 kilovolts (kV) in the distribution networks, stating dangers of electrical accidents, especially electrocution. At a briefing in Abuja yesterday, the Managing Director/CEO of NEMSA and Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation, Engr. Peter Ewesor, also warned electricity users of untested meters which he said did not usually carry NEMSA seal on them. The agency enforces technical regulations, inspection, testing and certification of all electrical installations and meters. On banning the 33kV connections, NEMSA said the 33kV points load locations were potential fault points that could cause tripping of power lines and equipment which led to frequent disruption of smooth power flow to consumers. “Most often, it also results in dangerous combination of low tension lines from the 33kV point load transformers and those of the 11/0.415kV transformers which constitute serious risk to lives and properties,” Ewesor noted. He said with the regime of Meter Asset Providers (MAP), more meters would be installed for electricity consumers, but that uncertified meters might not be completely functional and must be avoided. Ewesor further said, “The general public is therefore called upon to note that any electricity/energy meter that does not carry the above described features: NEMSA Plastic Seal and NEMSA Test Label, shows that the meter has not been tested and certified for use in Nigeria according to the Nigerian Metering Code Version 02.” The agency further rejected the installation and use of four types (vector groups) of distribution transformers in Nigeria. NEMSA bans direct power supply from 33kV feeders NEMSA monitors  DisCos’ electricity networks Electricity: Abuja residents, others flout safety laws, live under high tension Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin