Aircraftman (ACM) Bashir Umar yesterday received double promotion and was decorated with his new rank of Corporal for returning lost €37,000 Euros (N15m) to the owner in Kano. He also received a letter of commendation from the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, at the Headquarters of the Nigerian Air Force in Abuja, during a special decoration ceremony. Abubakar in his speech, said ACM Bashir’s display of uncommon act of integrity by returning €37,000 Euros he found at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano to its owner on 7 July 2019 while performing his routine duties. He said, “I am proud to say that we have found in ACM Bashir the rare qualities we stand for in the Nigerian Air Force. “The special promotion of ACM Bashir to the rank of Corporal today, apart from serving as a reward for good conduct is also to serve as motivation to other airmen/airwomen to aspire for such elevation.” Abubakar said ACM Bashir earned the rank of Corporal by good conduct and as part of the desire to reward uncommon good deeds and excellence, he is being decorated in front of his friends, peers and family. Aircraftman (ACM) Bashir Umar was born on June 1, 1995 into the family of Mallam Bashir Abdulmumuni and Salamatu Aliyu in Maiha L.G.A. of Adamawa State. ACM Bashir Umar was enlisted into the Nigerian Air Force on August 1, 2016 after Basic Military Training at the Military Training Center Kaduna. He is serving with National Air Defence Corps (NADC), Ikeja Lagos and attached to Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport as part of the Mobile Air Defence Team. Aircraftman Bashir Umar gets double promotion for returning lost 37,000 Euros Airman returns lost €37,000 to owner in Kano Armed Forces bury late Defence Chief, Alex Badeh Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin