The APC in Oredo West Constituency in Oredo Local Government Area of Edo State has passed a vote of confidence on Gov. Godwin Obaseki who is having a running battle with his predecessor, Com. Adams Oshiomhole. Leaders of the constituency have also thrown their weight behind Obaseki’s second term bid in the 2020 governorship election in the state. Addressing journalists at the weekend in Benin, Oredo West Ward II APC Leader, Baba Franco, said they were supporting Obaseki due to his developmental strides and good governance in the state. Franco said, “We are supporting Obaseki because of his performance, and we say, no to godfatherism. “For the first time, we have a governor who is not prepared to share the state’s money among party leaders, but develop the state so that people can stay back home and get gainful employment. This is why many of us are supporting the governor. “I believe that the crisis in Edo APC was engineered by somebody who wanted Obaseki to cave in to his demand so that Edo people will be in bondage. So, the problem most of the party leaders have with Gov. Obaseki is because he is not respecting the rule of the godfather and as such he must not have a second term.” He further said, “In this crisis, I have not seen politicians arguing that the governor has not sited a project in their communities. Those people fighting Obaseki now don’t even need projects in their areas, but that money meant for projects should be shared for them.” Franco noted that unlike during past administrations, when a part of the state was neglected in terms projects, projects were now spread across the three senatorial districts under Obaseki.  Oredo APC backs Obaseki's second term bid in Edo Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Edo 2020: Issues as fight over ticket gets messier Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin