The Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Mele Kolo Kyari yesterday said oil exploration would be pursued vigorously in the north and frontier basins in the country. Kyari stated this after he was officially introduced to President Muhammadu Buhari by his predecessor, Maikanti Baru at the State House, Abuja. “We will pursue oil exploration in the North and all frontier basins in the country. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “We have places even in the south that are yet to be harnessed. We will follow it and expand the exploration so that everyone can benefit from it. By God’s grace, we will do it,” he said. Kyari who took over from Baru on Monday, said he would discharge his duties transparently with fear of God. “I understand the gravity of the assignment given to me, the trust that is associated with this work and the high expectations of Mr President for us to make the company, a global company of excellence and to deliver to the citizenry the benefits of the oil and gas industry. “We are focussed in ensuring that we deliver this in the fastest possible way and in the most efficient way. I assure all that we will do this work with integrity,” he said. He said they are going to work with EFCC and other institutions to tackle corruption in the system. How Kyari became my successor — Baru Baru said Kyari was selected following his recommendation to the president. “It was not difficult when Mr. President said ‘come up with a successor and give me a proposal’ because I have been mentoring and selecting leaders for the corporation. “I came up with the proposal for him and he selected Malam Mele Kolo Kyari. He (president) went ahead to say ‘you have to get him a team that will work with him’. That I did,” he said. Baru said Kyari and his new team had undergone intensive management training in Italy. The former GMD faulted the claim that he deliberately retired top staff of the corporation to pave way for Kyari’s emergence. “It is not a matter of being fair or not, he has to have his own team, other than mine. We don’t want to change their thinking. They have an aggressive programme,” he said. He said the government allowed the market forces to determine the price of kerosene because the previous system was not sustainable.  Cheers, fears as oil search resumes in the North Baru takes front seat in renewed frontier oil exploration Buhari appoints Mele Kyari as new NNPC GMD, seven COOs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin