The Managing Director of the Abuja International Housing Show Barrister Festus Adebayo, has said the government should look into housing not just to give shelter to the people, but to also contribute to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and create employment. Adebayo was speaking at the opening of the 13th Abuja International Housing Show which held at the International Conference Centre in Abuja yesterday. “Contribution from the housing sector to the GDP is not up to 10%. This is extremely too poor. And our special appeal at the 13th Abuja Housing Show is to the government to look into housing not just to give shelter to the people, but to also contribute to the GDP. Also, using housing as a tool to create employment.” Adebayo said. He said in a construction of a building, nothing less than four skilled labour and five unskilled labour will be engaged thereby creating jobs for people. The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo who was the Special Guest of Honour and represented by Special Assistant on Innovation & Entrepreneurship Ife Adebayo, said the Federal government has trained over 40,000 skilled labour in the construction sector. The Chairman of the Occasion and former Minister of the Federal Capital Authority, Architect Ibrahim Bunu said he believes that housing should be one of the key contributors to Nigeria’s GDP. “I believe that housing should be one of the key contributors to Nigeria’s GDP.I am confident that this event will demystify the barriers and suggest the most sustainable and practical approaches to a robust housing sector that not only provides shelter, but jobs and economic opportunities.” He said this year’s theme which focuses on driving sustainable housing finance models in the midst of global uncertainties cannot be more appropriate. Pg 33 Property Mon May 30 The imperative of having federal ministry of housing and urban devt Furniture import must stop - Abuja Housing Show Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin