At least 120,000 pupils in public and private schools have been screened for eye defects while additional 40,000 are undergoing various stages of eye screening in Osun State. The Permanent Secretary, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Alhaji Fatai Kolawole, disclosed this in Osogbo, Osun State at the flag-off of the School Eye Health Week in Osogbo, Osun State capital. He said the screening was to ensure early detection of eye defects and other challenges that could affect the vision of the pupils. The screening was conducted by a nonprofit organization, Community Advancement for Self Reliance (CAI4SR), with the support of its donor partner, ChristoffelBlinden Mission (CBM UK), under the flagship programme of Standard Chartered Bank, Seeing  is Believing (SiB). He noted that pupils with good vision would be able to learn, become educated and achieve their full potentials in life. He commended CAI4SR and SIB for the gesture and assured them of the full support of the state government and SUBEB. Teachers in the state were also trained on ways to detect eye problems in pupils as a sustainability strategy after the programme. Kolawole appealed to parents, guardians and all stakeholders in the education sector to have full confidence in the programme. The CBM’s Cluster Coordinator for the project, Mr Clement Obayi, lauded the state government for providing an enabling environment for the exercise. A 6-year-old boy, Sesan, and a 15-year-old girl, Miss Mariam Mudasiru, whose eyes were operated at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, under the sponsorships of SIB programme, expressed gratitude to the donors.  Children with low vision to get free treatment in Osun Group donates equipment for children with low vision ‘3,000 children blind in Jigawa’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin