The Federal Government’s Executive Order Number 5 will mandate patronage of locally produced goods, and revolutionise the country’s economy, the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) Prof Mohammed Sani Haruna has said. Speaking in Abuja yesterday after receiving an award of Excellence and Labour Friendliness from the Academic Staff Union of Research Institutions (ASURI) of NASENI, Prof Haruna said the Executive Order would boost industrialisation and thereby increase the country’s GDP. The Order initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari will transform from a commodity-based economy to manufacturing and knowledge-based economy in the country, he added. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE When faithfully implemented, he said, it will revolutionise the activities of NASENI and ensure adequate patronage of its products. “Executive Order 5 which enforces the patronization of local professionals, it is not only an order but it has gone far in the National Assembly. “ This singular order has promised to revolutionize our activities. It is the implementation of the order that will guarantee a transition from a commodity based economy to manufacturing and knowledge based economy in the country,” he said. He commended President  Buhari for initiating the Exceutive Order. He thanked the Union for the honour and said the award signified hope and development for the “This award signifies harmony. It comes from the body of researchers. Those that gave me the award are those that are doing this work. “We thought that we used to disturb them by giving them difficult tasks with short deadlines to deliver on products and services that the nation wants despite the impression that we are not allowing them rest they are still commending me for that. So it signifies hope and development for the nation,” he said. He said Prof Haruna had demonstrated serious positive commitment to the requests and agitations of the Union. “He (Prof Haruna) has overtime demonstrated the passion for good working relationship between the union and the management of NASENI, hence the industrial peace being witnessed in NASENI today.” He  said the EVC has achieved excellence as an uncommon labour friendly chief executive in career progression for staff, appointment of Managing Directors of NASENI institutes from within the system, granting of study leave and scholarships to deserving staff, regular promotion exercises, facilitation of COREN certification programme, and training of NASENI staff within and outside the country.  Why Nigerian keke hasn’t been commercialised – NASENI Nigeria needs knowledge-based economy – NASENI Why Nigeria should embrace new production method – NASENI Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin