Following the success of the inaugural meeting of the Lake Chad Basin Governors’ Forum (LCBGF) in Borno State in 2018, the forum alongside several Civil; Society Organisation and other international stakeholders will meet in Niamey, Niger Republic for the second meeting of the forum. The conference organised by the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), with the support of the African Union (AU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was the outcome of the Regional Stabilization Strategy (RSS) for recovery and resilience in areas affected by the Boko Haram insurgency in the Lake Chad Basin. The Executive Secretary LCBC and Head of Mission Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), Ambassador Mamman Nuhu, the three-day event will hold from 16 – 18 July 2019. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE According to him, the main objective of the second forum is for the Governors and key stakeholders to provide strategic inputs and recommendations on the approach to the development and implementation of the Territorial Action Plans (TAPs) and shape policy towards a common regional approach to the overall stabilization of the Lake Chad Basin region. The inaugural meeting held on the 8th and 9th of May 2018, in Maiduguri, Borno State was hosted by the immediate past Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, and supported by the UNDP as well as the Governments of Germany, Sweden and Norway. The eight governors involved in this week’s event from Nigeria, Niger, Cameroon and Chad are the Governor of Extreme North, Cameroon; Governor of North Region, Cameroon; Governor of Diffa, Niger; Governor of Adamawa, Nigeria; Governor of Borno, Nigeria; Governor of Yobe, Nigeria; Governor of Hadjer Lamis, Chad; and the Governor of Lac Region, Chad. The inaugural meeting in a joint communiqué by the governors expressed their wish to play a central role in regional stabilization and advance developmental causes. The three-day event is expected to host over 300 participants and delegates from national institutions and government, UN agencies, continental and sub-regional bodies like the African Union, armed forces, MNJTF, ECOWAS, ECCAS, civil society groups and private sector from the Lake Chad Basin region. Lake Chad Basin Commission boss: ‘We have a stabilisation strategy to restore peace’ Need to restore receding Lake Chad Basin Tambuwal seeks Chad, Cameroon’s support against Bako Haram Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin