The new road construction around Anguwan Rogo, Anguwan Rim in Jos north local government area of Plateau State has raised the hopes of residents who expressed excitement at the prospect of the project when completed. The last time Anguwan Rogo/Anguwan Rimi road was renovated was during the military administration of Brigadier General Aliyu Kama who was the military governor of Plateau State from 1988 to 1990, said the Deputy Chairman, Road Construction Committee of the area, Malam Zubairu Shehu. Malam Shehu told Benue/Plateau Trust that the community was not only in high spirit since the contractors returned to site but was excited with the quality of job. “We are happy that Governor Simon Bako Lalong has fulfilled his promise to us and we will continue to pray for him. Past governments have come and gone yet no one made efforts to change our plight despite the terrible condition of the road.” Ado Musa, who also lives in Anguwan Rogo said though the project had tarried, the quality of the work makes it all worthwhile. Musa explained that with the construction of the road, it has now decongested Bauchi road by providing an alternative route to people going to the University of Jos permanent site or Farin Gada tomatoes market. Benue/Plateau Trust reports that the Plateau State Government in 2017 awarded road projects worth N5 billion for the construction of roads in communities that have been neglected by previous governments. The communities included Anguwan Rogo, Tudun Wanda, Tina, Dutse uku and Chanyap all in Jos north local government area of the state.  Anguwan Rogo, Tudun Wada youths call for speedy completion of roads Jos community laments 15 years of water scarcity Plateau awards N5bn road projects Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin