The House of Representatives on Tuesday reintroduced 41 bills, which had lapsed in the immediate past eighth assembly, for fresh reconsideration in the current ninth house. Of the 41 bills, 38 were read afresh for the first time while three, namely the National Orientation Agency Act (Amendment) Bill; National Ear Centre, Kaduna (Establishment) Bill; and the National Law Reform Commission Act (Amendment) Bill are to be reconsidered in the Committee of the Whole. Chief Whip, Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno), who moved the motion for re-introduction of the bills from the preceding 8th Assembly, said it was “Pursuant to Order 12 Rule 16 of the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE According to the Rule, “Bills passed by the preceding Assembly and forwarded to the Senate for which no concurrence was made‎; or to the President for which assent was withheld till the end of the tenure of the Assembly may be re-gazetted and reconsidered.” Meanwhile, a member of the House ad hoc Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau) said Speaker‎ Femi Gbajabiamila would constitute 102 standing committees, as against 96 in the 8th House. Gagdi, who disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the activities of the House in the past few days, however, added that of the number, the Speaker would only set up the House Services Committee before proceeding on annual recess on July 24. “Of the 102 standing committees constituted by Mr. Speaker, he will only set up the House Services Committee to cater for the office accommodation of the lawmakers and other services such as electricity,” Gagdi said. He further noted that contrary to speculations in some quarters, the Ethics Committee was not set up for any specific matter or person, but to attend to many issues of the ninth House as they arise. Electoral Act, PIGB, others set to face fresh legislation Concerns raised over 45 bills stalled in House of Reps committees One sitting to go, 506 bills pending in Senate Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin