The Port Health Service (PHS) at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) on Thursday remained busy as international passengers rushed to obtain the new e-Yellow card which took effect from July 1. The new electronic card effectively replaced the old Yellow card. Yellow Card is the proof of vaccination against yellow fever, which is a requirement for international travellers. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Many countries usually turn back passengers without the Yellow Card which is evidence of vaccination against the disease. Yellow fever was a viral haemorrhagic fever caused by a virus transmitted by the Aedes Aegypti mosquito and may cause fatal illness but it was a vaccine-preventable disease. The Federal Ministry of Health last week issued a release notifying prospective travelers that the old Yellow Card would no longer be accepted at the airport. Daily Trust’s visit to the airport yesterday indicated that many passengers visited the PHS office at Toll Gate along MMIA road as early as 7:00AM to obtain the new card. Some passengers however expressed frustration with the registration process which they said is too cumbersome. It was learnt that people without the old card were expected to take the Yellow Fever injection 10 days before travel while those with the old card were only required to pay N2,000 to get the new card. However some agents were collecting N3,100 from prospective travelers instead of the N2000. One of the travelers who identified herself as Ifeoma said she paid N3,100 to obtain the card. “I came here as early as 7:00am to get the card, I was told they charge N2000 but they collected N3,100 from me. I still don’t know when the card would be ready. You can imagine if I am scheduled to travel today, I would have probably missed my flight,” the applicant said. Director of Port Health Service, Alex Okoh however told Daily Trust the system “is actually designed to be seamless with the online registration and online payment. We are doing our best to ensure that this is achieved. If the crowd can be orderly, that would be helpful.” She also requested for the identity of the agents extorting applicants, saying, “We do not operate via agents or issue cards by proxy.” Intl passengers lament shortage of yellow fever cards FG phases out old version of yellow card on July 1 ‘Yellow Card distribution hampered’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin