A graduate of Insurance from The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Olalekan Olabode Oyaremi, was yesterday convicted of criminal impersonation and sentenced to four months in prison. Oyaremi was found guilty of a one-count amended charged filed against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan zonal office, before Justice Patricia Ajoku of the Federal High Court, Ibadan Judicial Division. The 24-year-old man was arrested on March 23, 2019 at Kolapo Ishola Estate, Akobo, Ibadan, for internet-related offences. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He was said to have fraudulently represented himself as one Angelina Kimberly, an American nurse, via an e-mail address angelinakimberly126@gmail.com. In line with the plea bargain agreement he entered into with the EFCC, the accused person pleaded guilty to the one-count charge. Consequently, the prosecution lawyer, Sanusi Galadanchi, prayed the court to convict him in accordance with the plea bargain agreement. The presiding judge upheld the prayer as she pronounced the accused person guilty and sentenced him to four months in prison. The court also ordered Oyaremi to restitute the sum of $3,600 to his victim, through the Federal Government of Nigeria. He will equally forfeit his Apple laptop, Toshiba laptop, one Samsung Galaxy Luna Pro, one iPhone, one Nokia phone, one Apple watch and one Smile 4G internet modem to the federal government of Nigeria, being items he bought with the proceeds of his fraudulent act. Graduate bags 4 months jail term for internet fraud Court jails 2 internet fraudsters in Ibadan Court jails man 5 months over impersonation in Ogun Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin