Engineer Edmund Amaobi Eje is the Head of Market Operator (MO); which is a section of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) that administers the registration of all licenced power sector operators. In this interview, he speaks about why MO recently suspended three DisCos and effort to instill discipline in the crisis-ridden electricity market. What is the role of the Market Operator (MO)? The Nigerian Electricity Market (NEM) is designed to evolve in stages. In 2014, the first stage started; which was called pre-transitional market, to test the rules and compliance. By 2015, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) felt that the preconditions for declaring the Transitional Electricity Market (TEM) had been met and the market transited to TEM. This stage is driven by a bilateral contract; which means customers can contract their energy with Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) and more entrants will come into the market. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE With this, the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) stands to provide guarantee for bulk energy purchase. One of the conditions of TEM is that the Distribution Companies (DisCos) will post a Letter of Credit (LC) or guarantee to the MO. MO will rest on this LC in the case of short payment of energy invoice by the DisCos. MO registers all participants in the electricity market. From 2015, transactions concerning the energy and capacity trading was handed over to NBET, and what was left for MO, apart from all other market administration processes, is services payment. It involves the service charge for the TCN made up of the ancillary services by the Transmission Service Provider (TSP), the System Operator (SO) and the MO, then the service charge for NERC and NBET. So the MO collects these service charges from the DisCos. The DisCos have not been paying 100 per cent for service charges. How is this affecting operations in the power sector? When TEM commenced, the DisCos didn’t comply with full payment in the early months. An attempt was made to get the LC, but the DisCos went to court and obtained injunction and stopped MO and NBET from having their way; probably because of the willpower, the MO and NBET have not been able to implement this part of the market rule. The outstanding bill on service charges by the 11 DisCos as at March, 2019, was N263bn, not to talk of energy and capacity charges that are handled by NBET. This N263bn is made up of 65 per cent every month; what the DisCos pay monthly to MO is averagely 35 per cent. You will ask, how have we been coping? Because we have projects to execute, salaries to pay and some other overheads. The market rule demands that charges for ancillary services which will stabilise the grid are paid 100 per cent irrespective of the energy payment made in the market, but this is not the case for this service providers or ancillary services payment. This has affected our services at TCN because of the shortfall. The MO sanctioned some DisCos recently over defaults. What was this about? Today, we feel that instead of government to cancel privatisation, we will try to enforce compliance. This is what we have commenced: we looked at the records and saw that the LCs of the DisCos had expired, or those that their LCs were no longer up to what they should be. We discovered that three of the DisCos: Ikeja, Eko and Enugu, failed to post their LCs or guarantees and they were suspended from the electricity market. They were duly notified in newspaper publications. One of the DisCos called for public hearing and it was granted and conducted. The hearing committee considered their submissions and discovered that it was not a good excuse for non-compliance with the market rule and so it was suspended. But I’m happy to tell you that today, the three DisCos which were suspended have fully complied. Some of them whose security deposits were not enough were asked to top them and to ensure their regulatory departments monitor this regularly. There are fines for this violation and these DisCos have paid the fine, as well as posted adequate security deposits. The three DisCos have complied and we have lifted the suspension and have been advised to look at their records from time to time. Is this sanction peculiar to only the DisCos? Every market participant has signed a participation agreement with the MO; depending on what they do. There are Generation Companies (GenCos), DisCos, eligible customers and others; we have braced up to ensure the market rule is followed. It is not peculiar to the DisCos, they are participants in the market. The number of eligible customers is also coming up. What is the impact of this disciplinary action in the electricity market? So far, we have been receiving commendation that for once we are instilling discipline in the market. It is indiscipline that has brought the electricity market to where it is today, and that willpower to ensure the right thing is done at the right time was lacking. If the service providers get their full revenues on time, they will be more efficient, salary will be paid on time and services rendered to the market will be efficient. Privatisation: 70% of PHCN severance package ready – Igali ‘Nigeria needs at least 150,000mw of power to stop outages’ Can N213bn power sector lifeline improve electricity? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin