For the second year running, Chivita 100% has won the highly coveted Outstanding Juice Brand of the Year Award at the prestigious Marketing Edge Awards for Excellence, and thereby affirming its dominance in the Nigerian juice brand segment. Chivita 100% Fruit Juice was adjudged winner of the highly competitive category because of its outstanding brand equity, segment leadership, customer engagement and innovative integrated marketing communications – across traditional and digital. Made from real natural fruits with no added sugar or preservatives, Chivita 100% is a convenient, delicious, healthy and nutritious 100% fruit juice. It offers health-conscious consumers a range of refreshing and nourishing fruit choices as an addition for a complete breakfast diet. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE According to organizers of the Awards, the selection of Chivita 100% was as a result of painstaking industry reviews and assessment of the patriotic contributions of the brand to the growth, development and continuing evolution of the juice segment in the country. “The brand has demonstrated robust commitment to excellence as well as the enthronement and sustenance of global best practices in the industry. Chivita 100% has also shown an uncommon innovativeness for market leadership, and this is why our jury decided that Chivita 100% was deserving of the recognition and celebration,” the organizers stated. Speaking after receiving the award, the Marketing Director, CHI Limited, Mr. Probal Bhattacharya, commended the organizers of the Awards for recognizing Chivita 100%’s strides as a market leader in the juice segment. Chivita wins Outstanding Juice Brand of the Year Award Chi Limited honoured at manufacturing excellence awards Chi bags Top 50 Brands Nigeria award Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin