The Federal Government is planning a serious security architecture overhaul at the Nigerian Airports, our correspondent has learnt from a source familiar with the matter. A man identified by Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) as Usman Adamu from Niger Republic on Saturday gained access to the tarmac (a highly restricted area) of the Murtala Muhammad International Airport Lagos, climbed on an Azman Air plane wing and force the airline to abort the flight. The man gained access to the airside without being spotted by aviation security officials on duty, the CCTV camera operators also didn’t flag him down, and even the airline staff didn’t notice him, a situation that has raised serious safety concerns. FAAN claimed that the said Usman Adamu might be suffering from mental ill-health as he was previously caught trying to access the airport. But he made a return, and this time was hugely successful and might have harmed the aircraft and its occupants if he had dangerous materials. Thus, in the face of rising insecurity in the country, and whilst the man is under interrogation, a source said the federal government has ordered a total security overhaul at the airports, in spite the suspension of some FAAN security staff. The source who pleaded to be anonymous because of the sensitive nature of the matter said the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) were thoroughly embarrassed over the security breach which has raised concerns by aviation industry about the security of Nigerian airports. The Lagos Airport is the busiest airport in Nigeria, accounting for more than 50 percent annual traffic. It also has the most robust security presence which is why stakeholders are worried that if Lagos can be so brazenly breached, then other airports might not be so safe. Among the impeding security checks our source say include a staff audit for all airport workers and security profiling of the staff to identify possible bad eggs. When contacted, the Permanent Sectary Ministry of Transportation, Alh. Sabiu Zakari didn’t give specific details but confirmed he was working on forestalling future security breach at the airports. “I am seriously on it” he told our correspondent in a text when asked about the FG’s plans to stop future security failures. Commenting, Group Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), an aviation security expert, wondered how he entered the security controlled areas. He said he man might have gained access “either through the airport access ‘controlled’ areas or from the porous areas especially the airport perimeter fences that need security enhancement.” Man who jumped on plane is Nigerien – FAAN Inside story of Kano airport drug cartel Security Breach: FAAN identifies intruder as Usman Adamu from Niger Republic Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin