The Magajin Garin Daura Alhaji Musa Umar, who was abducted by gunmen on May 1 in Daura, was yesterday rescued in Kano. Police authorities in Kano said he was rescued at an apartment located at Gangan Ruwa Quarters in Samegu, on the outskirt of Kumbotso Local Government Area, not far from the state capital. People living close to the house said the apartment was recently rented out to the abductors, whose identity was not known to residents of the area before yesterday’s incident. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The traditional title holder, who had been in captivity for two months, was picked in front of his Daura residence shortly after Magrib prayers. The testimony of the people in Samegu showed that the abductors of the Magajin Gari did not keep him in one place in the last two months. Credible sources in Daura said no ransom was paid. Since his abduction, police authorities said there was no communication with the kidnappers apart from the exchange of gunfire with the abductors on the day he was taken away. Daily Trust reports that Magajin Garin Daura, a retired Customs Controller and a brother of the Emir of Daura, is married to Hajiya Bilki, a niece to President Muhammadu Buhari. The Magajin Gari is also the father of Fatima, who is married to President Buhari’s Aide De Camp (ADC), Col. Mohammed Abubakar. Kidnapped victim in Abuja  Hours after his rescue, the traditional title holder was taken to Abuja via a private jet which landed at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport at about 1.30pm. On ground to receive the traditional ruler was his son-in-law Col. Abubakar. Wearing a white kaftan, the traditional title holder was seen in company of some of his children and an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, who played a key role in his rescue. Shortly after his rescue yesterday, the pictures of the kidnapped victim wearing caftan without shoes and cap went viral. A source said Magajin Garin has been taken to a private hospital for medical attention following the stress he was subjected to while in the abductors’ den. How the operation was carried out The rescue of the Magajin Gari was carried out Monday morning by the Inspector General of Police Operation Puff Adder Intelligent Response Team in conjunction with Kano state police command. The Police Public Relations Officer in Kano, DSP Haruna Abdullahi, said the operation was carried out around 2000hrs and that the Magajin Gari was rescued unhurt. He added that some arrests were made and ammunitions recovered during the operation. He, however, said he could not tell the exact number of suspects arrested, as the case was being handled by the IGP’s special team. Sources said it took the operatives two and half hours of fire exchange with the kidnappers before they could rescue him alive. One of the sources, who craved for anonymity, confided to Daily Trust that 11 suspects were arrested in connection with the kidnapping. He said the Magajin Garin Daura was taken to five locations before he was finally brought to Gangar Ruwa in Samegu six days ago. He said, “He was first taken to Katsina after he was kidnapped from Daura; then moved to Yobe State and later to Jigawa State and then Abuja before they finally took him to Kano. The man spent only six days in Kano before he was rescued by the police.” According to the policeman, the leader of the criminal gang was arrested while trying to buy a car from a dealer in Kano. “We got a tip-off that the man is going to change his car and that he has ordered for a car to be brought to him on Sunday. It was in the process of going to the dealer that we were able to arrest him. “The man boarded a tricycle from Gangar Ruwa to Kano city and, unknown to him, our men were trailing him. So, shortly after he left the area, our men communicated with their colleagues who were also around the area he went to see the car and we finally arrested him.” Another security source said armed policemen were deployed to Gangar Ruwa around 6pm on Monday, where they cordoned-off the house where the Magajin Garin Daura was being kept by the kidnappers. He said, “Few minutes after the police took over control of the area, the leader of the kidnappers was brought by the police and was asked to speak with his men through a public-address system to surrender themselves. “However, the criminals inside the house refused to surrender to police. Their leader, therefore, asked them to release his wife and daughter who were also inside the house. Again, the criminals refused. Instead they opened fire into the air with a view to scaring the police,” he said. “As a result of this, the police engaged the kidnappers in fire exchange and in the process, one of the criminals was shot in the head and killed instantly. “The man was shot dead while trying to escape by climbing the rear wall of the three-bedroom apartment. Two other criminals were arrested alive,” he said.  What security men told me – Ward head Malam Nasir Sani Abubakar, who is the ward head of the area where the traditional title holder was rescued, told Daily Trust that the operation began on Sunday when some security personnel, who told him they were from Abuja, came to the area to conduct some search “during which they arrested two of our neighbours, one with members of his family and the other was alone.” He added that they were released later in the evening. “Then yesterday (Monday) in the evening, the security personnel came to the area in large number and they suddenly started exchanging fire with the residents of this house where Magajin Garin Daura was rescued,” he said. When asked whether he was aware when the house was rented out to the kidnappers, Malam Abubakar said “Honestly I was not aware because the caretaker of the house did not consult me when he rented it out. I only heard that some families have parked into the house.” He said about four years ago, the same caretaker had rented a house to suspected members of Boko Haram, which caused serious problem in the neighbourhood. He said it was unfortunate that the man who rented the house to the criminals was a popular person in the area, adding that he had reported himself to the police. Neighbour speaks Malam Umar Alhaji Haruna Kofar Na’isa, who lives close to the affected house, said he was around when the exchange of gun fire began. “It started around 6pm yesterday (Monday). I was here when they came and surrounded the house. All of a sudden we heard a very loud sound of gun shot from the house and the police started their own and it went on until around 8.30pm,” he said. Kofar Na’isa told our reporters that the police came with the leader of the kidnappers who rented the house where he identified himself and told the occupiers to open the gate and not to kill their captive as that will be “disastrous” for them, but they refused to open the gate. He added that the house was previously occupied by a tenant who had vacated the area. Kofar Na’isa described the incident as “terrible experience,” saying their families could not sleep throughout the night due to the fear they went through as a result of the gunshots. The house where the Magajin Garin was found has since been demolished by officials of Kano State Urban Planning and Development Authority (KNUPDA). Jubilation in Daura  The news of the rescue yesterday sparked wild jubilation in the ancient city of Daura as residents thronged major streets in the town singing and dancing. Even though there was no official statement from the Daura Emirate, palace staff and guards were seen in jubilant mood. At the residence of the traditional title holder, friends and well-wishers were seen in happy mood. Alhaji Umar Umar Ata, the spokesman of the family and the Dan Lawan Daura, who is the younger brother to the victim, said the family is full of joy and thankful to Allah. He appreciated the role played by the security agencies in the last 63 days that led to the freedom of his brother. “We are equally praying for those involved in this way of life for God’s guidance and if they failed to change their ways, Allah should handle them accordingly. “I want to urge them (kidnappers) to stop this way of life and repent so that they can have a new lease of life,” he said. Chairman of Daura Local Government, Engr. Abba Mato, said the success achieved was as a result of the massive prayers and resilience of security agencies and urged them the sustain the tempo. Beside Magajin Garin Daura, a teenager, Ahmad Ibrahim, was also abducted in Daura on Wednesday, May 15, only to be released four days after at a location in Bichi Local Government Area of Kano after his parents paid ransom to the kidnappers. However, the whereabouts of an EFCC operative and a native of Daura, who was abducted over three weeks ago, remained unknown. How Magajin Garin Daura was 'rescued' in Kano Magajin Garin Daura: Police make arrest, recover ammunition Magajin Garin Daura: Uncertainty persists three weeks after abduction Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin