About 60 engineers of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) will get latest technology training in transformer production in China, the Executive Vice-Chairman of NASENI, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna has said. Prof Haruna said the training was part of the Federal Government’s steps to making electricity supply stable across the country. Speaking at the orientation training programme for the engineers before their departure to China, in Abuja yesterday, the NASENI Executive Vice Chairman said the agency had been producing transformers manually and using traditional technology, but the training would afford the engineers the opportunity to learn the modern form of transformer production, using computers. The shortlisted engineers will later run the proposed Transformer Manufacturing Line and High Voltage Testing Laboratory, which is located in Power Equipment and Electrical Machinery Development Institute (PEEMADI) in Okene, he added He said the other component of the training was high voltage testing which was of great benefit. He said after the training, Nigeria would no longer take samples of faulty transformers abroad for analysis and information as our local engineers would have mastered the whole technology around it. He said with the facility the power industry and independent power producers could go to the facility to ascertain their situation without having to pay heavily for testing and certification abroad. He said:  “Already in the power equipment and electrical development institute of NASENI, we are producing transformers manually and using traditional technology but the world has gone advanced. We are just going to learn the modern way of using computer for designing and manufacturing.’’ On his part, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. Bitrus Nabasu said the China Great Wall is providing 85% of funding, leaving Nigeria with just 15%.  FG’s N4bn transformer manufacturing plant underway Kogi, NASENI sign MOU on technology transfer NASENI, Lar collaborate on capacity building for Langtang youths Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin