Developing a revenue model requires brainstorming and thinking outside the box. You should not allow how your competitors make money constrain you. There is always room for innovation in every line of business. You can develop new income streams. The number of your streams of income is limited by your imagination, not what others are doing. You can offer something free to be able to sell something else at a good profit. You can also offer flexible payment terms and make money from interest payments arising from the convenience of delayed payment. It comes back to having a good understanding of what your client needs and the business environment. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The days of having only one product or service went with the industrial age. You can add value to existing clients and attract new clients by solving more of their problems without additional stress. The concept of turning a filling station into a one-stop shop started with one man. He observed as customers waited impatiently to get their fuel tanks filled. They needed to run other errands – buy groceries, car parts, gauge their tyres, service their cars etc. They had money sitting in their pockets. He wondered what he could do to earn some of that money. He started adding things in the waiting area, drinks, snacks, groceries, car accessories etc. His customers started to spend more time and money. His revenue and profits went up. Your clients have money in their pockets. Some of them can come your way if you know how to meet more of their needs. Usiere Uko is a certified business & finance coach and is reachable on twitter @usiere, info@apexcoachingltd.com, www.apexcoachingltd.com.com  What is your revenue model? Five tips for start-up success Personal training business tips that generate wealth Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin