The House of Representatives has set up a seven-man ad hoc committee to intervene in the “crisis-ridden Edo State House of Assembly.” The committee, chaired by Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa), was constituted following a motion, yesterday, for urgent need to intervene on the affairs of the state assembly by Julius Ihonvbere and Peter Akpatason, both members of the APC from Edo State. The lawmakers, while leading debate on the motion, said the National Assembly’s intervention was in line with Section 11 (4) of the 1999 Constitution. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE They also urged the Inspector General of police (IGP) and Director of State Security Service (DSS) to provide adequate security to ensure the swearing-in of 24 members-elect in line with the Nigerian Constitution. The ad hoc committee was to unravel the remote and immediate causes of the crisis tearing the state assembly apart, and then seek ways for amicable resolution and proper inauguration in line with the provisions of extant laws. “On 17 June, 2019, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and his deputy, after abducting four members-elect against their wish, caused the Clerk of the House to secretly swear-in nine members out of 24 outside the time recognized by the House rules for legislative business. “We are worried that given such illegality and growing insecurity in Edo State, no normal legislative business can take place unless the House is properly inaugurated,” the lawmakers said. Adamu Ciroma’s comment on APC is partisan –Segun Oni Suspended Edo lawmakers vow to attend sitting Leadership tussle caused Nasarawa Assembly fracas — Dep. Speaker Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin