The Centre for International and Strategic Studies (CISS) has given President Muhammadu Buhari and the country’s Service Chiefs pass mark for the deployment of Counter-Terrorism Campaign. The Centre made this commendation after a careful appraisal of the proactive measures put in place in the last four years by the administration of President Buhari. In a bid to sustain these efforts both at the policy and operational levels, the CISS, however, recommended that the president should retain the Service Chiefs as the fight against terrorism is not a conventional war. In a statement signed by Professor Ahmed Danfulani, the Centre revealed that the era of prevalent deadly attacks by Boko Haram sect is now in the past. The high points of the group’s findings were in the areas of improved funding, enhanced and robust operational module (Counter-Terrorism manual), high morale of troops at the frontlines, improved routine visits by the service chiefs to the theatre of operations, strategic partnership with NGO’s and improved regular assessment of the effectiveness of the operational module. “ The Centre for International and Strategic Studies notes the efforts of Nigeria in the fight against terrorism in the country as evident in the deployment of a counter-terrorism campaign by the security agencies which by all estimation has been deemed a success. “ It has also reviewed the operational doctrines of the Armed Forces to assess its effectiveness in the fight against terrorism, and as well as making strategic inputs towards the overall success of the Counter-Terrorism Campaign. “ The Centre for International and Strategic Studies identifies that since 2015 there has been improved funding for the operations of the Nigerian military in the fight against terrorism, and this has ultimately translated in boosting the morale of the troops on the frontlines. The soldiers are well equipped as well as well kitted with the arms and ammunition, including military hardware. “ The Centre for International and Strategic Studies has, on numerous occasions, reviewed the operational module for the fight against terrorism and found it robust and in tune with present realities as posed by terrorism. The Counter-Terrorism manual is comprehensive and as well teaches the need for a productive civil-military relationship in winning the war against terrorism. The establishment of a directorate for Civil-Military Relations, as well as a Human Rights Desk by the Nigerian Army, are worthy examples of the robustness and effectiveness of the Counter-Terrorism Manual of the Nigerian Military in the fight against terrorism in Nigeria” Boko Haram activities only confined to Lake Chad, Sambisa forest – Buratai Osinbajo: I''ve seen rich people join terrorism Service chiefs comply with directive, arrive Maiduguri Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin