Dr. Bege Katuka Ayuba, Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State has commended the federal government’s decision to grant financial autonomy to local government councils. Katuka, who spoke during a ceremony to mark his one year in office, described the development as one of the greatest gifts of democracy. He said that the autonomy had created an all-inclusive sense of governance, stressing that government now belongs to the masses OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “Our primary responsibility now is to come up with projects that would benefit people, especially the rural populace,” he said. The chairman attributed the successes recorded by his administration to the cooperation he got from the people of the area. “My greatest happiness is to see the people visit my office from remote villages within the local government, to say thank you for providing road, bridge, water or electricity.” Katuka also expressed gratitude to Gov. Nasir El-Rufai’i and his former Deputy, Barnabas Bantex, for availing him the opportunity to serve and promised not to betray the confidence reposed on him. The chairman urged the people to shun divisive tendencies but should work towards moving the nation forward. Some of the scorecard recorded in the council within the last one year include construction and rehabilitation of township roads in Kagoro, provision of motorised borehole at Takad Chiefdom, Kaura Fabwang, Zangan villages as well as provision of solar light at council’s staff quarters. At a separate ceremony to also mark his one year in office the Chairman of Jema’a local government, Danjuma Averik, commended Governor Nasir El-rufai’i for granting local government areas in the state partial autonomy which paved way for development. He said since inception, the council had focused on peace, security and safety in the local government which paved the way for development to thrive. Averik, who further enumerated strides recorded in the health, agricultural and infrastructure sectors, urged the people to be tolerant, engage in constructive criticism and be security conscious. Kaura LG chief urges youths  to unite LG workers in Kogi rally for autonomy How feasible is local government autonomy? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin