A panel set up by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to investigate why some of its members in the 9th National Assembly failed to abide by its directives in the election of principal officers in both chambers has kicked off the probe. PDP members in the Senate and House of Representatives were alleged to have “compromised,” a development that made it easier for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to have its way. Senator President Ahmad Lawan from Yobe State, who is the preferred candidate of the APC for the Senate presidency defeated Senator Ali Ndume from Borno State who the PDP asked its members to vote for. In the House of Representatives, the PDP asked its members to vote for Umar Bago from Niger State as speaker but Femi Gbajabiamila who was the preferred choice of the APC emerged. The 10-man panel led by former Senate President Adolphus Wabara yesterday met with some members of the National Assembly at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja to unravel what transpired before and during the elections of principal officers. Though there was no briefing on what transpired yesterday, Daily Trust gathered that the closed-door meeting which was held at the National Executive Committee (NEC) hall, considered the possibility of the APC having a hand in what happened. Addressing members of the committee and lawmakers during the opening session, Wabara said the committee would find out and recommend ways to checkmate such tendencies in the future and ensure that all members work together to defend the interest of the party at all times. “This committee has invited you today to rub minds with you on the alleged disregard to party decision and discus the way forward,” he said. “The position of the committee is expected to be thorough, bold, courageous and reconciliatory. All concerned are expected, therefore, to bare their minds on the subject-matter without fear or favour. “We all without exception, have a solemn duty in midwifing PDP that is not only reformed but also reform-minded which is upbeat in serving the best interest of Nigeria and Nigerians.  “The implicit confidence Nigerians have in PDP should not be allowed to wane. We must collectively steer the ship of the party on the path of responsible politics, responsible governance and responsible leadership,” Wabara said.  Lawan, Gbajabiamila gain support of PDP lawmakers APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership National Assembly leadership: Saraki, Dogara win as APC rejects outcome Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin