The Nordica Fertility Centre has trained one hundred and twenty doctors on fertility treatment procedure called Intrauterine insemination (IUI). The training in Abuja was done in in collaboration with the Society of Gynecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON) Managing Director of the centre, Dr. Abayomi Ajayi, said that intrauterine insemination is the most rudimentary form of assisted conception , and  requires very low technology. “The training will enable doctors to do this kind of treatment and in turn benefit patients who are looking for the fruit of the womb.” He said about 75 doctors were trained in Asaba and that doctors in Lagos would soon be trained on the procedure. Dr Abayomi said  couples  seeking children of their own should not lose hope as  there are centres in the country making giants strides in fertility treatments and that people from other countries were coming to the country to access care . Secretary General of the Society of  Gynecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON ) Dr Chris   Aimakhu, said  about 20% of couples in Nigeria suffer from infertility. He explained that IUI is a technique in which semen is inserted into the uterus of a woman without sexual intercourse. “That way the sperm doesn’t have to go through a long distance before pregnancy occurs.” He said there were about 1, 300 gynecologists in Nigeria , and that that the number was inadequate to cater for everyone. “So this programme in conjunction with Nordica will help train gynecologists and other medical personnel on techniques to help infertile couples.”  Fertility treatment: How to differentiate IVF from Intra uterine insemination Endometriosis: Managing that pain in women ‘Working with computer on your lap can cause infertility’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin