The British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mrs. Catriona Laing has visited the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II in Ile-Ife, Osun State. During the visit, Ooni described the Nigeria-UK relationship as cordial, expressing his belief in the High Commissioner’s ability to uphold and improve on it. The monarch used the medium to congratulate the new British Prime Minister, Mr Boris Johnson on his emergence, urging him to not to renege on his promise to the world especially as regards to the Africa’s interest. “I love the Prime Minister’s inaugural speech that power belongs to the people. I want to use this opportunity to implore him and his team to work hard to be able to deliver on their promises to the world.” “Once again, I congratulate him and I pray that the Almighty God will be with him and make him succeed in this new capacity and in his future endeavours.” “Similarly, I commend the British High Commissioner to Nigeria for her good works particularly to strengthen the strong cordial relationship between the United Kingdom and Nigeria.” “You are very much welcome to your home, Ile Ife, the cradle of human race and natural headquarters of Yoruba nation. I want you to during your tenure here in Nigeria work with us for peace, for love and for progress so that a good history can be made of your tenere as the British High Commissioner to Nigeria” Ooni noted. In her address, Catriona who was thrilled by several cultural displays from entertainers explained that the Nigeria-British relationship remained strong, adding that she has mapped out plans to further strengthen it. New Ooni of Ife Ogunwusi to be crowned in 3 weeks Ile-Ife: Dawn breaks as Ooni-elect gets set for coronation Buhari to new Ooni: Work with us for greater peace Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin