Senator Rochas Okorocha, a former Governor of Imo State, has asked his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, to tender “unreserved apology” to his family, especially his daughter, for the assault allegedly meted to her by some members of the committee on the recovery of looted property in the state. Sen. Okorocha alleged that on Friday, July 26, Chairman of the committee, Mr. Jasper Ndubuaku, slapped his daughter, Mrs. Uloma Rochas Nwosu, at the ALL-IN Furniture Store owned by her mother when she sought to know why members of the committee “invaded” the store. Okorocha, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media,  Sam Onwuemeodo, expressed regret that three days after the ugly incident, neither the governor nor the government he headed or the head of the committee for the recovery of looted property deemed it necessary to apologise to the woman and his family. He said it was more disturbing that Ihedioha had not denied knowledge of the ugly incident. “It has, therefore, become necessary to ask the governor and his government to apologise to Mrs. Uloma Rochas Nwosu, the family and the former governor. “It is even more disturbing that instead of doing the needful, the government dished out a very heartless falsehood, that a mob wanted to lynch Mrs. Nwosu and their media collaborators who they had assembled the previous week and struck an ungodly deal with them, went to town with such unfounded story. “In the history of Imo State, since its creation, Rochas Okorocha is the only person who had governed the state and after leaving office, the children stayed behind in Owerri to run their businesses without police escort, and also move freely,” the statement read in part. The former governor further alleged that, “The Ndubuaku-led committee has no template, and that is why they storm private houses, offices and shops under the guise that they have come to recover government’s property.”  Okorocha gives Ihedioha 7 days to show proof of looting Stop harassing my wife, children, Okorocha begs Ihedioha Okorocha chides Ihedioha’s chief of staff Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin