The Kaduna State House of Assembly has rejected the nomination of Aliyu Jaafaru Abubakar as commissioner of Agriculture over his alleged criticism of the policies of Governor Nasir el-Rufai. Abubakar, who was nominated by El-Rufai, was rejected by the House of Assembly members during screening in the chambers. ‎Daily Trust gathered that this is the first time since 2015 that the house leadership is rejecting a nominee of the governor. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Speaker of the House Aminu Abdullahi Shagali, who presided over the sitting, said the rejection of Abubakar was as a result of his criticism of the present government on his social media handles since 2017. The speaker said Abubakar had been criticising El-Rufai’s policies on education, especially on disengagement of unqualified teachers. “In your Facebook account, you said there is nothing like making Kaduna State great again; it is a deceptive cliché used by politicians to deceive the masses. We should make Kaduna great at the appropriate time. “It is a responsibility for those who are truly sincere not for those who are inherently sarcastic. “You also said El-Rufai must learn to tackle issues with human face; you also said you are an advocate of change that goes to the root and cause not only the symptoms. “You also said in the same post, ‘Stop comparing me with El-Rufai who thinks he is more intelligent than intelligence itself,”’ the speaker said. Speaking with journalists shortly after the plenary, chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Alhaji Tanimu Musa, said “the evil that men do lives after them. “Jaafaru has been a critic of this administration on social media. He has been criticizing the government. So why do you want to work with the government you have been criticising before?” speaker Abubakar said. Other nominees screened were Mr. Thomas Gyang as Commissioner for Planning and Budget Commission; Hassan Usman Mahmud, Commissioner in the governor’s office for Riots, Damage, Rehabilitation and Resettlement; and Atiku Musa as Auditor General for Local Governments. Kaduna: Assembly rejects nominee for criticising El-Rufai on social media INEC presents certificates of return to El-rufai, 34 lawmakers-elect Page 20 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin