A former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has asked the current National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to stop disgracing and fuelling crisis in the Edo State chapter of the party. Chief Oyegun explained that it was necessary to caution Oshiomhole over “the ignoble role he is playing in fuelling the crisis in Edo State.” Apparently reacting to the recent outburst and indictment by Gov. Godwin Obaseki and the House of Representatives ad hoc committee, Oyegun said he was yet to come to terms with why Oshiomhole forgot that he (Oyegun) never interfered in the affairs of Edo when he was the national chairman of the party or while he was governor. Chief Oyegun, in a statement yesterday by his Public Affairs Adviser, Chief Ray Murphy, wondered why Oshiomhole allegedly failed to realise that Gov. Obaseki should be supported as the only APC governor in the South South rather than vilifying and destabilising his administration. He wondered why a man who claimed to have buried godfatherism in Edo politics could play God and become “an agent of disruption” in the smooth running of the state government. He specifically urged the Progressive Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor being hampered by a party chairman whose actions might lead to political misfortune of the party. “The recent outburst by Gov. Obaseki and the report by the House of Representatives ad hoc committee indicting the current National Chairman of the APC have confirmed my earlier claim that Oshiomhole is not only the architect, but is also responsible for fuelling the crisis in Edo State. “In the face of these confirmations, I want to urge Oshiomhole to stop disgracing the ruling party and the good people of Edo State,” he said. But the Chief Press Secretary to Oshiomhole, Simon Ebegbulem, said, “I have no comment. Chief Oyegun is a respected leader of the party and an elder statesman. “Com. Oshiomhole has so much respect for him. If he really wants to address Oshiomhole, he can come out openly to address the man who succeeded him in office and not one Murphy.”  Oyegun asks Oshiomhole to stop 'fuelling crisis' in APC, Edo Oyegun to Oshiomhole: You are distracting Obaseki You are a godfather , Oyegun tells APC chair Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin