Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted one of the wives of the  Local Education Authority (LEA) Secretary of  Abaji Area Council, Mrs. Hauwa Umar Ndagi. Our reporter learnt that a member of vigilante, Hussain Abako, was stabbed severally by the kidnappers  when he attempted to rescue the woman from them. A resident of the area, who preferred anonymity, said the incident happened around 11:08 pm when the gunmen invaded the house where the LEA secretary’s wife was residing at Anguwar Kekeshi, on Toto Road, Abaji. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Anguwar Kekeshi is just some meters away from the police station. He said the gunmen were many and carrying sophisticated weapons, they  shot severally into the air, before they whisked away the woman. He said the gunmen had targeted to pick up the LEA scribe, but could not meet him at home in which they decided to whisk away the wife. “The LEA secretary just returned from Kaduna where he went to attend a workshop. And how did the kidnappers knew that the man is back if not with the connivance of some insiders, “ he said. He said the gunmen abandoned the injured vigilante member in the bush where he was located and taken to the hospital in Kwali. A family source, however, confided in our reporter that contact has already been established with the kidnappers and they  are demanding for N10 million ransom. It would be recalled that three persons were also last Wednesday kidnapped at Nuku village of the council  and  they are still being held captive by their abductors. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said he would get back to our reporter after he find out from the police division in the area but he never did. Kidnapped Abaji LEA scribe’s wife, trader released after N3.4m ransom Gunmen abduct politician’s son in Abaji Gunmen abduct 27 year-old man in Abaji Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin