Slowly, the protests, and the resultant face-off between the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) and security forces, worsens. The recent one resulted in the deaths of some policemen and Shiites. Daily Trust Saturday takes a look at the issue. According to the Institute for Compilation and Publication of Shaikh Zakzaky’s Work, the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, (IMN) Sheikh Ibraheem Yaqoub Zakzaky actually began his teachings at the Ahmadu Bello University, (ABU), Zaria, where he had clashes with the school authorities. In 1980, he visited Iran a year after the Islamic Revolution and was opportune to meet Ayatollah Khomeini. During the early years of the IMN, followers of Sheikh Zakzaky in universities – although he had already graduated then – used to organize gatherings. It was during one of such gatherings, on May 5, 1980, that Zakzaky declared his call to the public in Funtua. The first procession observed in the history of the IMN was on April 1980, after the United States failed to rescue its consulates held captive inside its embassy in Iran. Sheikh Zakzaky and his followers therefore staged a peaceful procession in Zaria on the failure. The second was in May 1980, also staged in Zaria with the slogan ‘Islam only’. Many incidents would follow, as would arrests and detentions. Fast-forward to December 2015, when the convoy of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, on his way to the passing out parade of recruits at the Depot NA in Zaria, had the way blocked by a Shiite procession, sparking a major incident later that month, that spiraled into security forces raiding Zakzaky’s residence in Zaria, resulting in the killing of three of his children, among others. He was whisked alongside his wife Zeenah into detention and have since been there. Many protests, of varying degrees of seriousness, have since followed, some of them turning bloody and with fluctuating body counts. Then most recently, the July 22 clash in Abuja around the Federal Secretariat, is perhaps the fiercest between the sect and security outfits. It led to the killing of three policemen, including a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Usman Umar, in Charge of Operations in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Police Command, Daily Trust Saturday gathered. It was also learnt that many Shiites members were killed in the clash while policemen were trying to maintain law and order. According to sources, policemen had mounted roadblocks and checkpoints on major entry points into Abuja city centre to prevent the Shiite’s access to the Three Arms Zone. However, this proved abortive as the Shiites suddenly congregated around the Federal Secretariat and clashed with cops. It was learnt that in reaction to the killing of the policemen, a gun battle erupted in the area, whereby, more policemen sustained injuries including DCP Umar, who later died in a hospital. Also, a journalist who is a serving member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Precious Owolobi, with Channels Television, was shot during the clash and eventually died from gunshots wound at the National Hospital in Abuja. Force Spokesman Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Frank Mba in a statement after the clash, said the protest involved 3,000 members of the Zakzaky group noting that “the heavily armed protesters defying all sense of decency violently attacked innocent citizens and Police personnel on duty.” He said the police arrested 54 suspects in connection with the incidents and are undergoing interrogation and will be arraigned in court as soon as possible. The following day, armed policemen dispersed Shiites around the Wuse II area in Abuja, where they were gathering to commence another protest. The Shiites starting running towards Banex Plaza as the armed policemen chased them, while gunshots were heard in the vicinity. The House of Representatives after a rowdy session on Tuesday set up a seven-man committee to interface with the relevant authorities and security agencies to resolve lingering protests by the Shiites, chaired by the House Leader, Alhassan Doguwa. Also, the House also resolved to summon security chiefs to brief it on strategic efforts being put in place to checkmate security threats posed by frequent protests by the group. The resolutions followed a unanimous adoption of a motion brought under Matters of Urgent Public Importance by Mohammed Bello from Kano State. ‘How Precious Owolabi died’ Precious Owolabi, an NYSC member serving with Channels Television, died of gunshot wounds. A Senior Reporter with the television outfit, Lucky Obewo-Isawode, on whose desk Precious was attached, told Daily Trust Saturday that the late corps member was ‘hard working’. “On the sad Monday when this all happened, we were standing side-by-side and we were about 200 meters from the scene. My cameraman was standing by my left, while Precious was on my right. We all decided to stand together with the aim of running into the official bus in case the issue escalates. I gave the driver instructions not to turn off the engine of the car. From nowhere, we heard a gunshot and Precious collapsed. We picked him and rushed him to Amana Hospital, Garki Area 8 but we were told that the bullet was lodged inside his tummy, so they recommended we take him to the nearest government hospital where a surgery could take place. That was Garki Hospital, also in Area 8. On getting there, they said the surgeon on duty was not around. We kept calling, but by the time we got him, he said he was very far from the hospital. They then referred us to National Hospital. By the time we got to the National Hospital, life was already leaving Precious.” “I was also want to use this medium to correct the story going round that Precious was sent alone to cover the event. That’s not true; Precious is attached to me and he was right beside me the whole time,” she said. Precious, those close to him say, was a playwright who had written four unpublished plays. His latest, titled ‘Three Minutes to Midnight’, ironically highlights the challenges of insecurity in the country. Views on the way forward Security experts, and others, have weighed in on the issue. Executive Director, Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Center (RULAAC), Okechukwu Nwanguma, cautioned against the indefinite detention and torture or ill-treatment of detained members of the Shiites arrested in the last few days in connection with their protests for the release of their detained leader. The police should promptly charge them with credible evidence or release them, he said. “The group, not known to bear dangerous arms, appears to have been radicalized and pushed to resorting to violence by the unnecessary use of disproportionate force and maximum violence especially by the military in order to repress their peaceful agitation. I blame the government’s lack of discretion and use of the wrong approach for the escalation of violence, resulting to needless casualties,” Nwanguma explained. Also, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has called for a robust dialogue to resolve the violent Shiite protests. MURIC Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola, in a statement Thursday, said it is most disheartening that people are dying during Shiite protests and condemned all forms of violence. He appealed to the supporters of Sheikh Zakzaky to review their strategy as the affair is getting complicated. Akintola claimed: “Video clips have emerged showing members of the group attacking police vans during demonstrations. The death of the senior police officer during the last protest cannot be wished away. Policemen are also human beings. Shiites claim that they did not use any weapon, but did the officer commit suicide?” According to him, non-Shiite Muslims who reside close to Shiite headquarters in Zaria have given damning evidence of the intimidation of neighbours by the Shiites in the days and years before the army’s attack. He said, “Those harassed included Christians and non-Shiite Muslims. This is quite worrisome. This discovery has made it difficult for those who are intervening in the Shiite imbroglio to absolve the group of any wrongdoing. Shiites should not be deceived by the hypocritical declarations of solidarity from certain quarters. Most of such statements are made by people who are keen on exploiting the sectarian lacuna between Sunni and Shiite Muslims.” Presidency mum on IMN proscription The presidency has declined to comment on whether the federal government was considering the proscription of the IMN, as done to the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in 2017. Contacted on whether there’s a latest decision on the group, presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu said the federal government’s position on the matter hasn’t changed. “There is no latest that I know of. Government’s position hasn’t changed. El-Zakzaky is in the custody of the Kaduna State government. They are trying him in court for several alleged offenses. Federal Ministry of Justice is not in this. President Buhari has no hand it.” “The Constitution of Nigeria does not give the President power to stop investigation and trials. He can pardon upon conviction. On the El-Zakzaky issue, this whole thing is in the domain of Kaduna State,” he said. Previously, the presidency had said that: “It is wrong to be in court and resort to violence at the same time in order to get justice for anybody accused. The destruction of public property in the name of protest is not within the right of this group of Shiite members and no government anywhere would have tolerated a situation where any group would take over public roads in cities as they have done in Abuja and interfere with the rights of other citizens who are prevented from reaching their destinations. “We imagine a situation where families are taking their loved ones to hospital for emergency treatment and they are held up needlessly by the protesters. No government anywhere in the world would turn a blind eye to this unlawful behavior. These rallies and street dances ostensibly to openly insult the president and other leaders, threatening bloodshed, will lead nowhere because President Buhari will not ask the country’s judiciary to abandon due process and set a suspect free.” Ashura clashes: Scholars, lawyers apportion blames Shi’ite’s renewed protests Shiites march for Zakzaky’s release Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin