The Clerk of the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), Alhaji Audu Yahaya Omogbai, has said due process was followed in the inauguration of the house. The clerk stated this at the weekend while answering questions from the House of Representatives ad hoc committee set up to investigate the crisis in the state assembly. There were clamours in some quarters on the need for the National Assembly to take over the affairs of the Edo assembly over alleged misunderstanding between Gov. Godwin Obaseki and Com. Adams Oshiomhole which crept into the assembly. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Alhaji Omogbai said he received a letter of proclamation from Gov. Obaseki on June 14, and duly informed members-elect, notifying them that inauguration was set for June 17. He said, “13 submitted documentations, while 12 have been inaugurated, but 11 have not submitted (documents) at all. “One of those that submitted their documents is with the other 11 in Abuja. The two vital documents that need to be submitted include the certificate of return and the code of conduct and asset declaration certificates.” The Speaker of the assembly, Frank Okiye, said there was no acrimony before June 17, as all members were awaiting the proclamation letter in readiness for the inauguration. Rt. Hon. Okiye said, “This was our focus as legislators, but unknown to us, there was a gang up. On the day of the inauguration, some of us that were in the assembly made calls to other members; unknown to us that they were at a press conference. “About nine of us on ground mounted pressure on the clerk since we formed a quorum. At about 03:30pm, the clerk commenced the inauguration of the nine members present.” Earlier, the Chairman of the ad hoc committee, Alhaji Abudulrasaq Namdas, said the committee was in the state on a fact-finding mission to resolve the issues at the House of Assembly. Namdas said, “I can assure you that we have done much in the matter in the last one week. All the parties involved have given us their support and have shown willingness to resolve the matter.” He said their report would be out within a short period, assuring that the issues would be resolved quickly. Reps probe Edo Assembly crisis Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Group protests non-inauguration of Edo’s 7th Assembly Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin