Director-General of the Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office (MCO), Engineer Obadiah Nkom, has said the setting up Lapidary by a mining company, Piremen Ventures, will help the development of the mining/gemstone business as well as create more jobs for the youths. Nkom spoke through his representative and Director, Monitoring and Coordination, Mr Jacob Udoh, at the grand opening of the Head office complex of Piremen Ventures in Dawaki, Abuja at the weekend. “It is a great breakthrough in the mining sector to have this edifice and the equipment we are seeing here.  The company has keyed into the Federal Government’s diversification policy – diversifying from the oil sector to the solid minerals and agricultural sector. We have seen the potentials the company has in terms of jobs creation, and contributing to the growth of the economy. Now the company is going to sell locally, buy raw gemstones and process them at the Lapidary,” Udoh, said. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The CEO of Piremen Ventures, Emotan Josephine Aburime-Shine, said the companies vision is to add value to gemstone mined in Nigeria and create more jobs. “We are actually training new people on how to cut stones. We are going to start setting-up training programmes with the government for training the youths on cutting and polishing gemstones. The more skilled labour we have in the mining industry, the better the sector is going to grow,” she said. She said the gemstone market is the hugest in the world, hence the company is adding value to gemstones found in Nigeria. “There are gemstones people find and they’re worth hundreds of million when you add value to them. With the lapidary, we are going to add value to gemstones mined in Nigeria,” she said. The Special Technical Assistant (STA) to the Director General of Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office, Engineer Mustapha M. Yusuf, said by the establishment of the mining company and lapidary, gemstone will be cut and polished to best international practice. “So like what we have in the oil industry, our oil is taken out and refined and brought back to us. But this company is adding value, it has a lapidary where stone are cut and polished to best international practices, that our stones will be accepted in any country of the world,” he said. Yusuf said Nigeria is home to varieties of gemstones like sapphire, diamond, ruby, tanzanite and more. Piremen Ventures is a mining company sub-division of Emotan Global Ventures Limited established in March 2017. FG restates commitment to secure lives of miners Mining Cadestral Office issued 7000 licenses in 8 years — DG How solid mineral roadmap in boosting Nigeria’s revenue Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin