The Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Uba Sani, has denied condemning the re-appointment of the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari. In a statement by one of his aides, Abubakar R. Abubakar, the senator said he was reacting to posts on Facebook and WhatsApp chat groups where he was alleged to have blasted the President over his reappointment of Abba Kyari as Chief of Staff. He described the posts as “mischief taken too far,” saying “they are hatchet jobs and lies from the pit of hell.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Senator Sani urged the public to disregard both the Facebook posts and the one shared to WhatsApp chat groups. He said investigation had revealed that the posts were fabricated and ascribed to him by an aide of a defeated senatorial candidate in the 2019 Kaduna Central Senatorial elections. “The aim is to bring the Distinguished Senator to public ridicule and odium and portray him as disloyal to the President and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “The defeated senatorial candidate hopes that, through this subterfuge, he will warm himself back to the heart of Mr. President and possibly make a return from the political wilderness,” he said, adding “that the evil machination is dead on arrival.” Senator Sani insisted that he was a key loyalist of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying he held the President in the highest esteem and would never do anything to demean him. The Senator called on security agencies to investigate the “criminal behind the act.” I did not condemn Kyari’s reappointment — Uba Sani Senators seeking to topple governors Meet first time senators for the 9th Assembly Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin