A former Director General, Department of State Services (DSS), Afakriya Gadzama has condemned the practice where security agencies give inaccurate reports on security threats to policy and decision-makers in government. He made this known in Abuja, during the National Institute of Security Studies (NISS), lecture titled ‘Contemporary Security Challenges and the Survival of the Nigerian State.’ Gadzama delivered the distinguished lecture as part of activities for the ongoing Executive Intelligence Management Course (EIMC) 12, 2019, comprising 21 participants from different Security, Regulatory and Law Enforcement agencies. He bemoaned instances whereby security agencies continue to give the impression that they are on top of the situation, whilst in reality, the security threats are difficult for them to tackle. He said, “The expectation is that you would be more confident, professional and honest about how you go about discharging your duties. This is because one of the major challenges of current security management is the absence of integrity, truthfulness and honest advice to leadership.” He added that, “to make matters worse, security challenges are exacerbated by an overwhelmed and failing security infrastructure, outdated strategies and absence of appropriate capabilities and assets.” He said there is also the problem of leadership competence as a result of the politics of appointments in many security organizations. He noted that the security challenges in the last couple of years can be attributed to the absence of good governance, elite insensitivity and social injustice. He said the National Security Architecture has been outstripped by the magnitude and complexities of the current security challenges. Corruption undermined counter-terrorism – Former DSS boss Why Nigeria is facing major security threats – Gadzama Know the constitutional mandate of the DSS Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin