A gay suspect, Friday Okeke, arrested allegedly for having sexual intercourse with boys, has told the police that he enjoyed sleeping with under-aged boys than with girls. Okeke, a businessman who the police alleged they arrested after he was caught making love to two boys in his shop at Ebute-Ero, Lagos Island, declared he found girls irritating, “particularly the dirty ones among them.” He said girls were “becoming anti-social in their appearance because of their American way of dressing”, while boys were “original and undiluted.” The suspect said, “I often hear some people say that making love to boys is for ritual purposes. But, to me, it is more fun, laced with enjoyment. Though I regret introducing young boys into the homosexual world, that is the way life is drifting to.” Okeke disclosed that more and more young boys were being introduced into the homosexual club by people they trust and confide in. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, told journalists yesterday that on July 27, 2019, at about 11.30am, the Ebute-Ero police station received complaints from two different parents (names withheld) against Okeke, 35, of 23, Kose Street, Lagos Island. Elkana said that the two complainants alleged that the suspect lured their two male children (names withheld), ages 12 and 9, into his shop at Kose Street and had unlawful carnal knowledge of them through their anus. The victims were taken to the General Hospital, Lagos, for medical treatment and forensic examination, while the suspect was arrested by a team of detectives led by the Ebute Ero Divisional Police Officer, Sina Olunlade.  Teenager, 32-yr-old lover arrested for alleged sodomy Many deadly ‘boys’ of Lagos Day father faked son’s kidnap for ransome Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin