The delay in the appointment of ministers will not affect next year’s budget, Senate President Ahmad Lawan has said. Lawan spoke after he met President Muhammadu Buhari together with the Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila at the Presidential Villa, Abuja yesterday. “I think there is nothing to worry us deeply. The budget itself is normally prepared by civil servants, the permanent secretaries superintend and the directors will work most of the time. I believe that we are still on course and I believe both the executive and the legislature are on the same page on this. “We are desired, prepared and determined to pass the budget by the first and second week of December by the grace of God, provided it is presented to us end of September,” he said. From the confirmation of the CJN, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, Lawan said all nominations from the President will be treated speedily. “Yes sure. In fact tomorrow (today) we are going to confirm some directors of the NCC. What we did today is to set the tone of what will be coming in the future. That is to say we will be confirming the nominees from Mr. President because that will really ensure that the country is properly governed and the CJN confirmation was a fantastic way to start confirmation process and we are very happy we are able to confirm him today having received the letter of request from Mr. President only last week,” he said. He said the legislature would collaborate with the executive arm of government to organise a security summit to address the rising insecurity in the country. Lawan: We’ll pass budget in 3 months N/Assembly leaders meet today over election budget Senate Presidency: We appreciate Goje’s sacrifice—El Rufai Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin