The Committee of Intelligence and Security Services of Africa (CISSA) has said social media is being exploited by some subversive elements and negative force to destabilize African countries. This was contained in a final communiqué issued at the end of the 16th Ordinary Session of CISSA at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Abuja held between July 14 – 20, 2019. In the communiqué obtained by Daily Trust, Director-Generals and Heads of Africa’s Intelligence Services noted that “despite the many benefits of social media, it is increasingly being exploited by some subversive elements and negative forces to destabilize African countries. “Conference, therefore, agreed that social media represents a threat and resolved to take necessary measure to check it whilst at the same time guaranteeing the citizens’ rights to information,” CISSA said. CISSA said the conference noted with concern, the increasing security threats experienced by some African countries and resolved to support efforts by governments to restore peace and stability in these countries. It said: “The Conference reaffirmed its commitment to further enhance mutual confidence among members and to exchange intelligence to serve their common objectives, including the attainment of the goal of a conflict-free Africa as envisioned by African Heads of State and Government.” CISSA also took stock of the gains made since its 15th Conference in Windhoek, Namibia in contributing to the building of a “conflict-free African continent as per the African Union Master Roadmap of Practical Steps to Silence the Guns in Africa by the year 2020”. CISSA said the conference deliberated on the theme: “Illicit Financial Outflows from Africa and their Impact on National Security and Development”, noting that “a common thread that permeated throughout all the presentations were that Africa loses billions of dollars annually in Illicit Financial Outflows (IFOs), which has become a serious threat to the continent’s sustainable development, governance as well as peace and security agenda”. It warned that this threat of IFOs undermines the efforts to combat terrorism and the attainment of its Agenda 2063, including its flagship project of Silencing the Guns by 2020. CISSA, in the communiqué, said it had examined various means by which Member Services could support national, regional and continental efforts to combat IFOs, such as tracing and recovery of the illicit funds lodged outside the continent and the proper utilisation of theses recovered assets for national development. Africa intelligence institutions move to curb terrorist financing When Nigeria discussed terror groups in West Africa Illicit funds aggravating insecurity in Africa — Buhari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin