Senator Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna Central), yesterday, urged the National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal to dismiss the petition brought before it by Sen. Shehu Sani of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) for lack of substance. Sen. Shehu Sani is challenging the victory of Sen. Uba Sani in the 2019 senatorial election and is requesting that the tribunal declares him the authentic winner of the election. At the adoption of final written addresses after counsels concluded their defences at the tribunal yesterday, Counsel to Uba Sani, Frank Igbe, further urged the Justice A. H. Ibrahim-led tribunal to award substantial cost to the petitioners for abusing court process. Uba Sani was declared winner of the February 16, National Assembly election in Kaduna Central. On his part, Counsel to the petitioners, Morris Odeh, urged the tribunal to discountenance the written addresses of the three respondents in the petition and grant his clients the prayers in their petition. Odeh argued that the 1st and 2nd respondents, Uba Sani and APC, did not present a single witness or evidence in opposition before the tribunal, adding that, “We pray the tribunal to discountenance the written addresses of the respondents having not had any evidence in the opposition to the petition. “We also pray the tribunal to nullify the election of the 1st respondent, Uba Sani, and declare our client, Sen. Shehu of the PRP as winner in the February 16, poll, or in the alternative, order for fresh election into the Kaduna Central Senatorial District seat as contained in our petition.” Chairman of the tribunal, Justice A. H. Ibrahim, however, reserved ruling indefinitely after the petitioners, Shehu Sani and PRP, as well as the three respondents, Uba Sani, APC and INEC, presented their written addresses before it. Justice Ibrahim, before adjourning the case, adopted the written addresses of the petitioners and the respondents and said a date for judgment would be communicated to the parties. Shehu Sani vs Uba Sani: Tribunal sets date for ruling Kaduna Central: Tribunal to begin hearing of petition on June 1 INEC’s choice of counsel at Kaduna Election Tribunal sparks row Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin