Bandits’ commanders in different camps across Zamfara State sent their representatives to a peace meeting held on Tuesday in Gusau. The meeting was attended by Governor Bello Muhammad Mutawalle, State Commissioner of police  Mr UsmanNagoggo, heads of security agencies, Fulani leaders, leaders of the local vigilante group known as Yan Sakai and  other stakeholders. “The armed bandits’ representatives came here with a message. After this meeting, we will meet with state commissioner of police to deliver their message after which authorities will also pass their own message across to them,” the national chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle breeders Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Muhammadu Kiruwa, said. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Kiruwa said more people who had volunteered to broker peace were on their way to the state to meet the bandits at their hideouts to help pass the message of peace and tranquillity to them. He said for peaceful atmosphere to be attained in the state, there must be total disarmament of all armed parties, including the local vigilantes known as Yan Sakai and the bandits in the forests. The secretary of theYan Sakai, Sani Babbar Doka, admitted unlawful executions of Fulani in marketplaces and towns. “Mark my word, no Fulani will be executed again anywhere, any time in the state. We are going to strongly abide by the terms and agreements of the peace pact. But the bandits should halt further attacks and disarm,” he added. The police commissioner said Fulani were now attending local markets without any harassment and that the attacks had drastically reduced. Governor Mutawalle said the resettlement and reintegration of Fulani into Ruga would soon kick start in the three senatorial zones of the state. Zamfara: Bandits ready to lay down arms - police commissioner Zamfara: CP asks Fulani leaders to reach out to bandits within 2 weeks Day Zamfara govt, emirs, others debate over ending banditry Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin