Stem borers have invaded maize farms across Niger state triggering farmers concerns of possible yield reduction from their farms this year. Stem borer is an insect larva, or arthropod that bores into plant stems. Maize stem borers such as Busseola fusca, sesamia calamists, eldana, saccharina amongst others are said to be common pests which threaten maize yields in Africa. North Central Trust noticed a common trend of the wilting and ragged irregular holes in upper and newly unrolled leaves in some maize farms around Angwar Biri and Bejji in Bosso local government areas of the state. A farmer, Suleiman Muhammad Beji, told our reporter in his farm in Beji that stem borer infestation was a recurring incident in the area, adding that there is a noticeable spread this farming season. He said the pests have been causing significant damage to maize farms and were responsible for low yield adding that, the high cost of pesticides had stalled efforts in curbing them. The Chairman of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) in the state, Alhaji Shehu Galadima, confirmed the infestation but said the anomaly is not restricted to Bosso local government area alone. According to him, farmers in Katcha, Chanchaga, Kontagora, Lavu, Wushishi, Paikoro, Munya, Shiroro and Suleja have alerted his office of the infestation across maize farms in the affected local government areas. He said the situation became prevalent during the break of rainfall in late May and early June. He explained that the association had to embark on sensitisation on the need for farmers to alert the office through agricultural extension workers in their respective local government areas. Alhaji Galadima said the association had collated reports and forwarded same to the state government through the Ministry of Agriculture for action. The acting Director Produce and Pest Control in the ministry, Saba Gana confirmed that AFAN has alerted the ministry of the development, adding that his unit had carried out investigation on infestation in some farms. He said the ministry is working with relevant stakeholders in tackling the menace.  Quarantine service confirms infestation of farms in Benue Benue farmers expect good maize harvest despite worm attack How drought tolerant maize variety enhances production Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin