Detectives attached to Operation Crush, at the weekend, arrested eight suspected members of different cult gangs. The suspects were arrested from their various hide-outs around Bariga and its environs. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the arrest, said that arms and ammunition were recovered from the suspects. He said that at about 8.00am at the weekend, operatives of Operation Crush from Bariga Police station, arrested one Ifeoluwa Dodo ‘m’, 19, a strong member of Aiye confraternity at Odo-Eran Street, Bariga. He said that the suspect has been on the wanted list of the Police for the murder of one Ojo Taiwo, in February, 2019 at Bariga. According to him, the suspect escaped after leading eight other members of his cult to carry out the murder. “Five members of his gang were initially arrested and charged to Court for murder. On the same date at about 5.30 pm, the operatives arrested one Kunle Oyediran, m, 24,of Ifelodun Street Bariga, with two other members of his gang. The cult members arrested, according to him, were responsible for series of violent attacks and robberies in Bariga. The suspects, he said would be charged to Court. The spokesman of the command further revealed that on June 27, 2019 at about 2.14pm, operatives of Operation Crush from Anti-cultism Unit, acting on a tip-off, arrested one Peter Ejovwoke, m, 26, of Ughelli North, Delta State, at Ago Hausa Street, Ajeromi, Ajegunle. “Two Baretta Pistols with three rounds of live ammunition were recovered from him. On June 28, 2019, at about 2.30pm, the operatives also arrested one Azeez Ojora Ajayi, aka Alaje, m, 37, of Apapa. Two Baretta Pistols with four ammunitions were recovered from him. Investigation is ongoing. On June 28, 2019, at about 6.30 pm operatives of Operation Crush also received a credible intelligence report that members of Aiye and Eiye confraternities were re-grouping to unleash mayhem on each other and unsuspecting members of the public at Ketu and its environs, SARS operatives attached to Ketu on operation Crush, swung into action and apprehended the following cult members:  Olaiya Tosin, ‘m’, and Kazeem Adeyanju, ‘m’. One locally made gun, a battle axe, one arrow and charms were recovered from them. They confessed to be leaders of Aiye and Eiye confraternities, mobilizing their members for a clash of supremacy. Investigation is ongoing” he added. Police arrest 39 cultists in Lagos Exploits of slain Lagos cultist, Small Jpron Police arrest cultists’ armourer in Lagos Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin