The new Trade Union Congress President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, has asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to publish names of companies benefiting from its foreign exchange policy. The president made the request yesterday at the opening of the 6th Triennial Delegates Conference of the TUC FCT Council. “CBN needs to let the public know who those companies are that are applying for Forex, because we are aware that Forex is inadequate for manufacturing companies. ‘‘So if CBN is now saying that they will reduce the amount of dollars to be given to that sector of the economy, there should be assessment and traceability, background check for those companies applying for dollars,” he said. According to him, if this is done, the apex bank will remove the fictitious companies from the list and make Forex available to manufacturing companies. “So we need to close that gap, remove the fictitious companies from the list, and by then, CBN may not need to reduce anything but to give to the manufacturing companies because of the effect on workers.’’ On the minimum wage, Quadri said the union has given the government some days to assess the documents, adding that the union was awaiting the outcome of the meeting before taking the next line of action. Earlier, Mr Christian Ohaa, Permanent Secretary, Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), said the TUC has been a part of the success story of the administration. He reiterated the administrations’ continuous support to promote the rights of all workers. “A harmonious labour-government relationship will always benefit both parties and I am happy to say we have been able to achieve this in the FCT and the system has been better for us,” he said. Forex: Organised private sector seek policy review ‘Banks sitting on keg of gun powder due to naira fall’ CBN may stop sales of forex to BDCs soon Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin