The Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) has asked all Fulani herdsmen residing in the southern part of the country to vacate immediately if their security was no longer guaranteed. Addressing a joint press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, the chairman of NEF, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, said the Forum would continue to take up issues relating to the security and safety of Northerners in the South. He said stakeholders and other well-meaning Nigerians must do everything possible to stop the escalation of sensitive matters that would lead to the breakdown of law and order in the country. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “I will like to take a particular note of the last paragraph of your presentation especially with what we have heard in the last few hours that some violence had already started to manifest in some sections of the country against the herdsmen, who for all known reasons have been in peaceful co-existence in the communities where they have lived for many years. “Now, certainly we are worried about their safety, like we are worried about the safety of every Nigerian who decided to live wherever they want to. “But then, if there is no certainty that their safety is guaranteed by the authorities that are immediately around them or by the authorities that have the responsibility for the overall security of all Nigerians wherever they reside, we are certainly worried about their wellbeing and I think particular attention should be paid to what is happening on hour-to-hour, day-to-day basis. “And if it is indeed, true that there safety is not guaranteed in the places where they are residing, we would rather have them back into areas where there safety is guaranteed, and this is coming back as much as possible to the North. “They who are residents there should keep us informed and those of us who are monitoring from here should also keep ourselves informed about what is happening,” he said.  How Buhari, Atiku are ‘dividing’ the North Northern elders advise on herders, Ruga crises Farmers/herders clashes, banditry and national security Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin