A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Charles Idahosa, has said APC will die a natural death in the state if Governor Godwin Obaseki is forced out of the party amid the crisis rocking the state House of Assembly. Idahosa who said this, yesterday, while speaking with journalists in Benin on the raging crisis in the party, said he and many other party members would leave with Governor Obaseki if he was forced out of the party by a supposed godfather. “APC will die a natural death in Edo if Godwin Obaseki is allowed to leave the party due to the unabated crisis that is plaguing the party in the state,” he said. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE “APC will die here because the question we must ask ourselves is simple. Is he working? Is he doing well? No one has ever said he is not working,” he added. The fight between Obaseki and his godfather, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had taken a toll in Edo, with some people saying the former may likely be denied ticket to seek for second term. Idahosa, a commissioner during Oshiomhole’s tenure, noted that the way out of the crisis was for both parties in the crisis to take the decision of the party in the state as final as was done by the National Assembly. “The way forward is for both the Benin and Abuja based politicians to take the decision of the state EXCO of the party as final. Edo APC followed the national body’s template in choosing the principal officers of the National Assembly leader to choose the state assembly leaders,” he said. Speaking further, he said it was wrong for Oshiomhole’s loyalists to blame Obaseki over the loss of presidential election to the opposition in Edo. “During Oshiomhole’s tenure, APC lost the presidential election with over 80,000 votes but Obaseki only lost with little over 8,000 votes,” Idahosa said. APC will die in Edo if Obaseki is forced to leave - Idahosa APC chieftain insists Oshiomhole playing godfather in Edo Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin