Leaders of Yobe State chapter of Interparty Advisory Council (IPAC), the umbrella of different political parties including the PDP, have pledged to work with Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State to move the state forward. The political parties said Governor Buni’s inaugural policy statement on education, healthcare, infrastructure and the economy has “earned” their respect and support. The State IPAC Chairman Umar Mohammed Kukuri, who led the chairmen and secretaries of the other political parties to government house, Damaturu, on a courtesy visit on the governor, explained that with the elections over, the parties were ready and committed to partnering with the administration for the development of the state. “During the elections, we had aspired for various offices under the platforms of our different political parties. With the elections now over, we are here as compatriots to reassure you of the support of all the political parties in the state,” Kukuri said. Responding, Governor Buni expressed his appreciation for the visit, saying that the support and understanding shown by the political parties in the state from the time of the campaigns, through to his inauguration were encouraging. “I know your contributions and I will partner with you individually and collectively to move the state forward. APC as the governing party in the state and the nation in general cannot do it alone. We need to work together. We need your support and prayers,” the governor said. Buni also observed that Yobe was the only state with no pre or post-election litigation to his electoral victory, saying that alone demonstrated the extent to which the political parties in the state were ready to move beyond the elections for the unity and development of the state. Governorship Poll: 10 political parties in Yobe adopt APC’s Buni Yobe electoral commission releases timetable for local govt polls IPAC appeals to candidates, parties to accept defeat Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin