The Senate said yesterday that it was not in the position to decide on the date that President ‎Muhammadu Buhari should present the names of his nominees for ministerial appointment. After his inauguration for second term on May 29 and the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly on June 11, ‎Nigerians have been waiting for the ministerial list of the president, which requires Senate confirmation. Asked about it yesterday, the chairman of the Senate adhoc committee on media and publicity, Sen Adedayo Adeyeye (APC, Ekiti) told Senate correspondents at a press briefing that there was nothing the Senate could do about it. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He said it was the prerogative of the president to‎ choose those that would form his cabinet and forward same to the Senate, but that the Red Chamber would not ask the president to do so. “It’s the prerogative of the president. The Senate cannot decide for the president what to do. It’s not in our capacity to even advise,” he said. Asked if he was not worried that the submission of the names to the Senate was taking long, Adeyeye said:‎ “I don’t think this matter will worry me. The president is to send letter to the Senate President, and he decides when to do that. Why should it worry me when it’s not my job? “The Senate has its time table. We’ll soon be going on recess, and I think the Executive is mindful of our recess,” he said. Daily Trust recalls that the president took about two months before forming his cabinet in 2015, after he was first elected. Ministerial Screening: Amaechi’s confirmation can’t taint Buhari’s anti-graft policy – Senate Leader Ndume Ministerial list arrives Senate I’m not bound to have 36 ministries - Buhari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin