The Supreme Court yesterday dismissed the appeal by Senator Ademola Adeleke challenging the declaration of GboyegaOyetola as winner of the Osun State governorship election. In the lead judgement by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour, the apex court declared that the absence of the judge who read the majority judgment of the election tribunal, Justice Peter Obiorah, on the proceeding of February 6 rendered the entire proceedings a nullity. The judge upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal that under Section 285(4) of the Constitution, composition of court is fundamental to a trial and borders on fair hearing, adding that the proper thing to have been done in the absence of Justice Peter Obiorah was to start the entire trial afresh. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The Acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad, Justices Bode Rhodes-Vivour, Amiru Sanusi, and KudiratKekere-Ekun agreed with the judgement. However, two justices dissented from the majority decision and upheld Adeleke as winner. Justices Kumai Akaahs and AdamuGalinje held that Senator Adeleke scored the majority votes and fulfilled the constitutional requirement to be declared winner. The apex court also dismissed the cross appeal by the PDP challenging some aspects of the decision of the Osun State Election Petitions Tribunal which upheld the election of the party candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke. The PDP had in the cross appeal contended that the appellate court erred when it dismissed its cross appeal challenging the improper ballot counting which cost it 3, 402 and 379 votes in 23 polling units. But in the lead judgment by Justice Uwani Abba-Aji, the apex court held that the PDP appeal lacks foundation since the lead appeal by its candidate has been dismissed on the basis of improper composition.  Update: S/Court dismisses the appeal of Sen. Adeleke Osun: Appeal court nullifies Adeleke’s victory at tribunal Update: Two S/Court justices uphold Sen. Adeleke's appeal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin