The Coalition Against Terrorism and Extremism (CATE) has demanded the release of Action Against Hunger workers abducted by members of the Boko Haram sect in Borno State. The group, which made this demand on Thursday, said it was saddened that Boko Haram terrorists continue to quest for relevance even though the beatings they have taken at the hands of the Nigerian military do not leave them in a position to continue such pursuit. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, Gabriel Onoja, the National Coordinator of CATE said Boko Haram trying to raise funds to finance its terror activities with the abduction of the aid workers. It also urged the Federal Government to take stiff punitive measures, beyond what has been done before, against Boko Haram fighters if they hold onto the aid workers longer than another 48 hours. “This action of Boko Haram is condemnable in the highest sense possible. It shows that the terrorists are not intelligent enough to embrace the offer to surrender made by the military. This rejection of an otherwise sound offer is a death wish on the part of the remaining Boko Haram fighters, for which we commiserate for them” “The Nigerian Government through the military has been kind and magnanimous enough in its approach towards ending Boko Haram by allowing those who cannot withstand the firing power of the Nigerian military to surrender and be re-absorbed into the society” “In the past, when Boko Haram took hostages, it usually coincides with when the terror group was broke and desperately in need of money. Knowing that the military has seriously destroyed Boko Haram’s cache of weapons and food stock, in addition to the fact that the terrorists had overstretched themselves and exhausted their resources in recent months” “The abduction of the NGO workers is all about Boko Haram trying to raise funds for financing its terror activities. The terrorists are broke and seeking means to extort money from either the Federal Government of Nigeria or international organizations operating within the areas affected by their terrorist activities” “We call on Boko Haram to unconditionally release the workers of Action Against Hunger. If they fail to do so, Nigerians are confident in the military to fight to the finish until the last captive is released and last Boko Haram is seen by the Nigerian authorities.” Boko Haram and ISIS: Tying Nigeria to a bloody bond Saraki condemns killing of aid worker in Borno, urges Leah’s release A murder most foul Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin