The US-Nigeria Trade Council has projected that Africa’s economy could make impressive impact globally by tapping into its growing population and expanding markets. In a statement issued by the Executive Director, Titus Olowokere and the Director of Communications, Abigail Anaba, the council noted that Africa’s unfulfilled demands for goods and services can only be met by greater innovation and investment from business. It also called for the closure of gaps in African countries’ infrastructure, creating jobs and reducing poverty, noting that Africa is the new Asia with the last frontier for global growth and investment. “Africa has become the beautiful maiden that brings all the boys to the yard,” the council noted. The group’s Country’s Director Idris Alabidun said it is in realization of the new business frontiers in Africa that the US-Africa Trade and Investment Global Summit (USATIGS) has been slated for September 2019 in Atlanta, USA. “The summit will provide participants from the US and African countries with a unique platform to exhibit and promote their products and services in the United States. It will also address the constraints and barriers in identifying export markets for African product lines and encourage the establishment of long-term trade partnerships and business linkages between Africa and the Americas,” Alabidun said. He also said because four of the fastest growing economies in the world are in Africa, it is true that Africa is ripe with opportunities but they go largely untapped by North American firms unlike the Asian countries, especially China, which has about $300 billion investments in Africa. 2019 Africa summit: London school announces speakers, panelists Africa will become the food basket of the world — Dangote Nigeria is Africa’s investment hub, Osinbajo tells investors Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin