When the 2019 general elections were postponed few hours from when polls were to open across the country, the barrage of criticism that greeted the announcement nearly drowned the leadership of the electoral umpire. However, officials of the electoral empire, experts in the field and leaders of political parties recently met in Abuja and dissected the salient issues. Senior officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), most especially its chairman, Professor Mahmood Jakub, were accused from all quarters of compromising the electoral process. Even INEC believed the postponement and other challenges that befell the election could have been avoided had there not been a trust deficit in the country. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYMDROM DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE Speaking at a recent Electoral Reform Roundtable organised by the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room and the Kofi Annan Foundation, INEC’s National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, said this trust deficit was obvious with the decision to produce sensitive materials needed for the election outside the country. Clement Nwankwo, the Convener of Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, had opined that the commission enraged the people by not being forthcoming with information even when it was obvious it was practically impossible for delivery of materials to be concluded as at 5pm of February 15. Responding, however, Okoye said there was no doubt that there was an issue of trust deficit in the country’s electoral process. “At each point in time, we had to keep on hiding certain things,” he said. “You hide where you print your ballot papers and result sheets. You hide the period to bring them in. You do all sort of colour coding for ballot papers and result sheets. “You put all sorts of security features in them and you print your ballot papers to currency quality and you get the Central Bank to come and take the delivery in other to put it in a strong room to avoid a situation where some people will go and clone it or fake it. “Some of these issues, we had to keep them under wraps because of the trust deficit in our electoral process.” He said nothing prevented the commission from giving local printers the contract to print ballot papers and result sheets for state assembly elections. “They print, for instance, in Enugu and they truck it to the Central Bank and then to various local governments. But, we can’t take that kind of risk because of the type of challenges we have in this country.” On the issue of delay on the postponement of the election, he said the commission was still optimistic even as at 5pm of February 15 that they would be able to go ahead with the presidential and National Assembly elections on February 16 as earlier scheduled. “It is true that around 5pm on the day before the election (February 15), some national commissioners were saying this is the time to postpone the election, while others were saying ‘no, we have the capacity to pull it through’. That accounts for the kind of delay before announcing the postponement. “Rescheduling an election for us has huge national and security implications. So, at the end of the day, when we saw that it was next to impossibility to pull it through, we made that decision that was painful at that particular time,” he said. Security of election officers, materials Okoye lamented that one of the major challenges to Nigeria’s election remains securing the election, which he said was still beyond the electoral commission. Sharing a personal experience, he said, “I went to do a supplementary election in Benue State. As early as 7am, the security agencies called me and told me that (members of some) political parties have set the whole election materials in one registration area ablaze and beaten up all the presiding officers.” “How will the commission prevent that when different stakeholders do not play their roles,” he asked. Another major challenge that arose in the aftermath of the election, of which the electoral commission is still finding a way out, was the issue of electoral officers being made to return candidate(s) under duress. “If a candidate and some political parties are not interested in what happened at the polling units, they wait for the returning officer and when the returning officer wants to announce the result, you put a gun to his head and the returning officer makes a declaration of return. And we say because you have put our returning officer under pressure, we believe that the decision is not known to law and we will hold back the certificate of return,” Okoye said. He said when the commission took the “bold step” and civil societies and media refused to support the commission, “how can we now convince our electoral officers to stand firm and defend the sanctity of their results even when a gun is put to their heads?” But a former Chairman of INEC Professor Attahiru Jega begged to differ. He said there were ideas from other countries that INEC could borrow from in addressing such challenge. He said, “I know that it is part of the trust deficit which Festus spoke about that a returning officer is given that enormous power. But in many other electoral jurisdictions, there is provision of reviews of complaints before returns are made and that is the responsibility of the electoral commission. “If you are confronted with the situation, which you spoke about without mentioning, which is Imo, where somebody is alleged to have put a gun on the head of a returning officer to make a return. The electoral commission needs to investigate the matter thoroughly even if it is mere allegation before returns are actually made. So the legal provision needs to be strengthened for the electoral commission to make the final determination with regards to declaration of results in the state.” Professor Jega shared a similar experience that happened during the 2011 elections in Ilaje area of Ondo State. He said some militants cornered a returning officer and compelled him to declare a result. “We also held on to the certificate and what happened? Even without the certificates, the state house of assembly went ahead and swore them in. So, we need a stronger legal framework and enforcement mechanism to ensure that these kinds of acts of impunity and illegality are addressed. National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole suggested that instead of just holding back the certificate, there was nothing stopping INEC from cancelling such election. Also, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sokoto Matthew Hassan Kukah asked INEC to engage in more structured conversation with the civil societies. He said this is needed in situations where there are issues that the commission could not deal with, civil societies, when well informed, would be able to take up the issues. Earlier, at the opening session of the roundtable discussion, Nwankwo said the intention of all the observations from both foreign and local observers was to highlight the state of the election process and to fix what is wrong. The observations were not meant to cast Nigeria in bad light, he added. 2019:  Should INEC exercise prosecutorial powers? INEC – NYSC Partnership: Is it really working 2019: Concerns over scant details on INEC’s website Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin