Preparations to launch two more communications satellites to increase the internet penetration and facilitate the digitalization of broadcasting in the country have reached advanced stage, the Nigeria Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) has said. NIGCOMSAT’s Executive Director (Technical Services), Mr Kolawole Kazeem Raji, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja during the 3rd Reseller Forum organised by the agency. Mr Raji said with the 15-year tenure of the NIGCOMSAT-1 in space nearing its full circle, the agency was already making frantic efforts to procure two more satellites for the country’s communications purposes. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE He told the NIGCOMSAT’s resellers gathered at the forum that the agency was refocusing its direction towards retooling state-of-the-art equipment for better service delivery. He said the solution to the country’s myriad of socio-economic problems lies in satellite technology. If the country makes good use of its satellites, kidnapping and banditry will be solved, he added. Earlier, the Managing Director of NIGCOMSAT, Dr Abimbola Alale, said the broadcasting industry in the country had not fully optimized the abundance of connectivity on the agency’s Direct-To-Home (DTH) facility. ‘’We remain the flagship of broadcasting face in Africa with our indigenous state-of-the art facility’’, Dr Alale, whi was represented by the Executive Director (Support Services), Mallam Muhammad Abubakar Lema, said. She said the communication satellite market was dominated by major international players; she therefore urged the resellers and staff to work hard to ensure “we are part of the huge market share which can propel our economy.’’ Also speaking at the event, the agency’s Executive Director (Business Development), Mr Samson Osagie said NIGCOMSAT had recently acquired the latest hub technology, the DIALOGUE hub to ensure improved service reliability all in a bid to serve its customers better. NTA to broadcast via NIGCOMSAT’s SAT-1R FG agencies shun Nigeria’s satellites NTA to broadcast via NIGCOMSAT’s SAT-1R Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin