The FCT police command has arrested four persons suspected to be informants of kidnappers who have been terrorising residents of Abaji town and its environs. The Abaji Divisional Police Officer (DPO) CSP Umar Musa, said the suspects were arrested at different locations after their gang leader, identified as Danladi (alias D boy), was arrested in the area. He gave the names of the four suspects, as Aliyu, Surajo, Bashir and Danladi, and said they were the informants who had been giving information to kidnappers to abduct some residents of the area. He said the suspects were natives of the area and during interrogation, they confessed to be the ones leading kidnappers to abduct some residents at various locations across the council. “It was during the interrogation that their gang leader, Danladi (alias D- boy ) who was the first suspect to be arrested confessed and mentioned the names of other suspects. And he confirmed that after the operation, the kidnapers always give him between N50 to N100,000 as his own share, while other members are given N20,000 each in each kidnapping,” the DPO said. According to him, the suspects also confessed to having led the kidnappers to the homes of those abducted at Naharati, Abattoir, Sabon-Tasha and Nuku areas of the council in the past months. The DPO said the four suspects would be transferred to the FCT police command, while efforts were ongoing to arrest the fleeing gang members in the area. The FCT police commissioner, Bala Ciroma, also confirmed the arrest of the four suspected informants to our reporter via the telephone.  Benue Police nabs 11 suspected kidnappers, cultists Alleged killers of aide to Rotimi Olowo, Lagos legislator in police net Alleged killers of aide to Lagos legislator in police net Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin