The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment has said five transnational border markets and one regional market under construction in border communities in Nigeria will ramp up the diversification of the country’s economy. The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Edet Sunday Akpan, said this at a stakeholders’ meeting held in Abuja yesterday on the state of development of one of such proposed transnational markets located in Babanna, Niger State. Mr. Akpan said the special markets to be cited at border communities in each of the geopolitical zones in the country are a strategy of the Federal Government to stem border conflicts and crimes in Nigeria. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE The permanent secretary said the initiative would create jobs and allow trade between Nigeria and neighbouring countries. The industry ministry’s Director of Trade, Evelyn Nwachukwu, said the FG had started making moves to establish transnational markets in Gamboru Ngala for North East, Kamba for North West, Babanna for North Central, Okerete for North West, Mfun for South South and a regional market at Lokpanta for South East. Nwachukwu said the aim was to coordinate, document and formalise trading at border communities and also curb smuggling across borders. She said some of the facilities to be provided in the markets included warehouses, financial institutions, Bureau de Change, hotels, restaurants, parking lots, motor parks, mechanic workshops, security posts, customs and immigration, as well as petrol service stations and administrative blocks. The Emir of Borgu, in whose jurisdiction Babanna Transnational Market falls in Niger State, Mohammed Sani Kitoro, urged the government to fully fund the project. The emir, who was represented by Wazirin Borgu, Nuhu Abdullahi Sa’adu, said his community valued the market as an investment that would free the youths from unemployment. He played the support of stakeholders of Borgu to the actualisation of the border market in his domain. Nigeria produces 57% of global shea - Ministry Nigeria not taking advantage of AGOA, FG says Trade Fair: FG pledges to strengthen trade support infrastructure Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin