The Police Service Commission (PSC) on Thursday said it has agreed with the management of the Nigeria Police Force on the reorganization of the Federal High Way Patrol Teams across the country to check insecurity. The spokesman of the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani in a statement said this was one of the outcomes of the meeting on Thursday in Abuja when the PSC received the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu and the Management team of the Nigeria Police Force. He said the Commission’s team was led by its Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police. He noted that the nation’s current security challenges and other issues to improve the services of the Nigeria police were x-rayed. He said part of the solutions agreed on included a review and withdrawal of excess and unauthorized Police men seconded to some politicians and businessmen. They also agreed on an inventory of arms and ammunition in police custody nationwide; introduction of voluntary Community Support officers in Communities; the building of more barracks to instil discipline and make personnel available for emergencies. Ani said the PSC Chairman also hinted that the Commission will soon set up an independent Investigative Unit to handle complaints against Police by members of the public. He also called for detective training for serving police officers, regretting that many officers in the investigative units have never attended any detective courses. Other areas of training he recommended were on the proper weapon handling, handwriting analysts, ballistics intelligence gathering and others. Ani said the IGP in his response lamented the current practice of not releasing fully approved allocations to the Force, stressing that only 20 per cent of its approved allocation was released in 2018. He noted that the Force has continued to battle with logistics problems, inadequate barracks, poor facilities at training colleges’ epileptic communication network and grossly inadequate vehicles for effective policing. He agreed with the Commission on the need for regular meetings between the two organizations to ensure collaborative efforts in the search for peace and improved security in the country. New PSC board promises efficient police Redundancy as PSC reverses  conversion of 1,060 DSPs, ASPs We will reposition the Police,  Smith tells new PSC board Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin