Abductors of Magajin Garin Daura, Alhaji Musa Umar Uba, have contacted his family several hours after kidnapping him, Daily Trust learnt from credible sources yesterday. The Magajin Gari, a senior traditional title holder in Daura Emirate Council in Katsina State, was abducted in front of his house in the ancient town of Daura shortly after Maghrib prayers on Wednesday. “The abductors of the Magajin Gari, who switched off his handsets after taking him away, linked him up with his family and they had a brief conversation,” one of the sources close to the family of the traditional ruler said. “The Magajin Gari confirmed to his family that he was actually in captivity and urged them to pray for his release. But before he could say much, the kidnappers seized the phone and switched it off,” he said. Asked whether they demanded for ransom, the source said, “Not to my knowledge for now; maybe they did, but what is clear is that they have established contact.” Another credible source said the Magajin Gari spoke with one of his wives, probably to convince the family that he was alive. “They dialled the number of his wife using his phone and they spoke. He confirmed that it was abduction,” he said. The source also said the kidnappers had demanded for ransom, but Daily Trust could not independently verify the claim. Meanwhile, a security source said the kidnappers would have been intercepted but for the fact that they deployed different methods to evade arrest. “The first thing they did after they took off from his house was to switch off his phones, to avoid being tracked using GPRS. They also followed an unexpected route in order to divert attention. “They know that the police and other security agencies must have sent signals to different formations and checkpoints with perfect description of the vehicle used in forcefully taking the traditional ruler away. Even then, as you must have heard the abductors had close shave with the police. “Initially we thought they hid him along the Nigerian border with Niger Republic, but intelligence shows otherwise,” he said. We engaged abductors in gun duel – Police Meanwhile, the Katsina State Police Command said its patrol teams at Kusada Division had intercepted and engaged the abductors in a gun duel. The command added that during the exchange of fire, one Inspector Muntari Maikudi, who is attached to the division, was injured. The spokesman of the command, SP Gambo Isah, in a statement on the abduction of the traditional ruler, said the police officer sustained a gunshot injury and was taken to the Federal Medical Centre, Katsina for treatment. According to him, the IGP Tactical Squad, SARS teams, Police Mobile Force and counter terrorism units had been despatched to rescue the victim alive and return him safely to his family. “The command enjoins members of the public to always assist the security agencies with timely and actionable intelligence on the activities of these bandits. Be rest assured that the command and indeed other security agencies are on their toes to bringing to an end the activities of these bandits,” he said. Family still in shock Speaking on behalf of the family, Aminu Jamo, who is a close ally of the Magajin Gari, said the whole family shared in the grief and had resorted to prayers for his safe return. However, Jamo also held a contrary view on contact with the family. “As a family, we don’t have any communication (with the abductors). As I told you, what happened since his abduction was that we went into prayer mood. Nobody slept on the day of the abduction.” Also speaking, the Chairman of Daura Local Government Area, Engr. Abba Mato, said there was no any development. “We are waiting and praying,” he said. He said the family was being careful not to speak so as not to jeopardise the rescue effort. A Daily Trust correspondent, who visited the victim’s family, reported seeing sympathisers from within and outside Daura. People were also seen in clusters discussing and lamenting over the incidence. Security presence was seen in and around the town. Special prayers were held last night at the palace of the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruk, just as Jumma’a mosques have been directed to hold prayers continuously. Daily Trust reports that Magajin Garin Daura, a retired Customs Controller and a cousin of the Emir of Daura, is married to Hajiya Bilki, a niece to President Muhammadu Buhari. He is also the father of Fatima, who is married to the President Buhari’s Aide De Camp (ADC), Col. Mohammed Abubakar. Inspector shot as Police engage abductors of Buhari’s in-law in gun battle How gunmen abducted Buhari’s in-law in Daura How gunmen abducted District Head of Buhari's hometown