Governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA) in Imo State, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, has solicited for support for President Muhammadu Buhari to end the rising insurgency in the country. He warned that rather than politicizing the security situation to advance any form of political interest, Nigerians should jettison all forms of sentiments and rally round President Muhammadu Buhari to end the spate of killings across the country. Speaking to newsmen in Owerri on Thursday, Nwosu advised Nigerians to come together irrespective of political and religious affiliations and support the “concerted efforts of the present administration to tackle the security challenges, noted that it takes collaboration between the people and the government to effectively surmount all forms of criminality.” He said that Buhari has so far shown commitment in addressing the security issues in the North East and other parts of the country and should supported by every Nigerian to succeed. Nwosu said, “Nigerians should assist the Federal Government and the security Agencies to remedy the situation. The problem we have in Nigeria unlike other developed countries is that people see security issues as solely the business of the government and security agencies.As citizens we should assist the government to fight insecurity by providing useful information and being patriotic. “This is a phase we are passing through and I believe in the capacity and ability of President Muhammadu Buhari to secure this country.We must pray for our country and our leaders. People should not politicize the security challenges, rather all hands should be on deck to tackle the problem”. Uche Nwosu is APC in spirit and AA in dressing, says Okorocha My son in-law will contest Imo gov’ship in another party – Okorocha Okorocha to Igbo: Vote for Buhari or forget Igbo presidency till 2031 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin