Leaders and indigenes of Ibese community in Yewa North Local Government, Ogun State, yesterday stormed Governor’s office in Abeokuta, protesting alleged plan to impose monarch on the community. The protesters numbering hundreds, carried placards with various inscription to drive home their demands. Speaking with newsmen, a leader in the community,  Elder James Adediran Kumoye said the kingmakers in the community had elected Rotimi Mulero as the Oba – elect since March 25, 2019, but the government had failed to give approval preparatory to the installation process. According to him, Mulero’s election represented the peoples’ choice and any plot to compromise the kingmakers’ decision would be resisted. He called on Governor Ibikunle Amosun to approve the Oba – elect’s appointment to enable them embark on the traditional rites ahead of the installation. “In January this year, the process of the nomination was done. Four candidates emerged at the nomination. On March 25, 2019, the choice of the people was made as Rotimi Mulero was elected with 3 votes to one. We don’t want any other thing apart from that and on that mandate we stand. The kingmakers expressed the will of the people which can never be compromised”, Kumoye stated. . “We just want the governor to give approval, anything short of that may cause disharmony in the community. Nobody can foretell the end. Nobody can predict the dimensions it will assume, but we want peace in Ibese. We are peace loving people, but we don’t want our rights to be trampled upon, Rotimi Mulero is our choice,” he said. The state’s commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Jide Ojuko, however, assured the community that Amosun – led government would not impose monarch on the community. “As a government, we are not aware of all the rumors going on out there. But I want to assure you that we would do justice. We would do what is right. We won’t compromise. I want to urge you to be more vigilant as you have done and at the end we will all be happy,” Ojuko said.  Controversy trails traditional ruler’s selection in Ondo Ekiti govt intervenes as community locks monarch out of palace Ekiti community rejects Oba–elect Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin