Alhaji Aliyu Kiliya is the national president, Nigeria Association of Auctioneers (NAA). In this interview he spoke on the role of auctioneers in disposing recovered assets, what government should do about such assets, and other important issues.  You advised the Federal Government against using a committee for the disposal of recovered assets, what are your reasons? I offered that advice because a committee can be disbanded. The Ministry of Justice should be in charge of the disposal of all confiscated and recovered assets forfeited to the Federal Government. This is because they have a wide knowledge of what is involved in those cases. If you put a committee in charge of the disposal, after their disbandment nobody can keep record. But the Ministry of Justice is in the position to give account of all recovered assets because they are the custodians of the record. Also, auctioneers that are appointed to dispose the assets can keep record of each item sold, within and outside Nigeria. This is because any time an auctioneer does business of disposal he must keep record for future reference. Auctioneering business has legal implications. It is not all cases that every auctioneer can handle; hence he must be appointed according to the rules and regulations of auctioneering business and the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) act. Between secret and open competitive bidding, which one is better? A secret bidding is a hidden agenda; very few people participate and benefit in it, but in an open competitive bidding, the public will witness and put their interests according to what the regulation states. The highest bidder gets it and government generates more revenue. Secret bidding is like an under-declaration of government’s properties. In secret bidding, government is always losing while it is gaining in open competitive bidding. How important is the BPP to auctioneers? The Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) is the regulators for procuring and disposal, therefore, public servants, including auctioneers, must comply with its policies. There is the need to ascertain the capability of the auctioneer and whether he has all the relevant documents and experience. Therefore, ministries and parastatals must comply with the policy of the BPP before appointing an auctioneer; if not, they would be violating the public procurement act. In the course of your business, do you sometimes experience a situation where public servants indicate interest in some of the items declared for auction? Yes. We have witnessed that many times. Some public servants will say they are doing in-house auction, simply to allocate government properties to themselves. By that action they are violating the BPP act. Sometimes they suspend the auctioning of the items because we were prevented from selling to themselves. Public servants should know that there is penalty for anybody who is a custodian of items and procuring same. The BPP act clearly states that public servants should not indicate interest in procuring assets in their custody because it gives room for corrupt practices. What is your relationship with the BPP? We have a good understanding because we are stakeholders. Whenever we see anything going contrary with the BPP act, we draw their attention. They also checkmate auctioneers who are appointed to dispose items. As you do your business, how do you ensure that government is not cheated, and how do you protect the interest of the public? Government will not be cheated if the prescribed assignment is carried out properly. An auctioneer must ensure that he pronounces auction items to the nation widely for interested buyers. He ensures that the sale is transparent and based on laid down procedures. What is the role of the judiciary in the sale of recovered assets? The judiciary is the institution that recovers assets. Auctioneers are principal partners to the judiciary because we are the only recognised body that can dispose items in a way that both the government and the public will be protected. Whoever does an auction sale without engaging the services of auctioneers is doing so at a great risk. There are complaints that most of the recovered assets are defected by different circumstances, how can the auctioneers assist the Federal Government to recover part of the lost values? It is true that some of the recovered assets are overdue for disposal. It is due to the long standing litigation on some of the items. The items become defected as a result of wear and tear. It is the responsibility of auctioneers to sell the items through open competitive bidding so that government will generate more revenue, and values can be salvaged. Are government institutions and agencies engaging the services of auctioneers? Many government institutions and agencies are currently working with us, and we are very happy with them for doing the right thing. I am advising government to stop secret bidding. They should engage the services of auctioneers who are professionals. Government should consider so many items that are abandoned in some ministries and parastertals. For example, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has some hazardous materials that can be sold back to manufacturers. And we are ready to assist government to pinpoint areas where there are loopholes. ‘We recovered over N1.2bn Naira for government last year’ Audit of recovered loot: Matters arising Forfeited loot kept in CBN consolidated revenue account — Bolaji Owasanoye Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin