The Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, on Monday, said the Governor – elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun would review last-minute employments and contracts awarded by the outgoing governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, when he assumes power on May 29. In a statement made available to Daily Trust in Abeokuta by the Committee’s Publicity Secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye, the party vowed that the review would also be extended to installation of new traditional rulers. Our correspondent recalls that the governor had, last week, announced recruitment of 1,000 employees into the civil service. Amosun, however, explained that the employment followed due process as the beneficiaries were picked from over 5,000 applicants who sat for recruitment test over a year ago in the state. But, Oladunjoye said it was “morally unacceptable” for Amosun to embark on mass appointments and promotions, “without due consideration to the governor – elect,” barely a month to expiration of his tenure. This, he noted, amounts to “committing the incoming administration to unsustainable financial commitments and obligations.” “Though a Joint Transition Committee of the incumbent and incoming Governments has been set up, Senator Amosun has made last-minute appointments and awarded contracts without due consideration to the incoming administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun. “Whilst we accept that the term of this Government expires on the 29th May 2019, it is morally unacceptable that a Governor with less than one month to the expiration of his term in office will make mass appointments and promotions, thereby committing the incoming administration to unsustainable financial commitments and obligations. “We hereby, alert the general public and those to whom it may concern that all appointments, installation of traditional rulers, contracts, commitments and obligations entered into during the transition period after the elections will be reviewed and may not be binding on the new administration,” he said. Ogun APC slams Amosun, says he deserves sympathy Ogun: Council chairman impeached over APC crisis Don't grant Amosun's last minute loan request, Ogun APC tells banks Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin