Nigeria’s 187 trillion cubic feet gas reserve ought to place the country as the largest downstream production hub for fertiliser and other gas-related production in the world. The Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Aisha Abubakar, said this yesterday in Abuja during the validation meeting of the National Industrial Fertiliser Production Policy (NIFPP). The minister, who was represented by the Director, Industrial Development, Engr. Adebowale Bakare, said the fertiliser industry was very strategic for national development; particularly in attaining sustainable food security. She said the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) and the industrial component of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) identified the fertiliser industry as one of the areas of industrial activity where Nigeria possessed comparative and competitive advantages. “As we all know, Nigeria is richly endowed with natural resources for the production of organic and inorganic fertiliser. Nigeria is currently rated as having the seventh largest gas reserve globally,” she said. She further said Nigeria had more than 30 fertiliser companies in different states, and revealed that the combined effort of Indorama Eleme Fertiliser and Chemicals Limited, the upcoming Dangote Fertiliser, Nagarjuma Fertilisers and Chemicals Company, Brass Fertiliser Company, Cybernetic Nigeria Limited for Micronutrients and others would bring Nigeria to attain self-sufficiency in fertiliser production; and for export. The Vice President of Indoroma Organic Fertiliser, Mr. Veeramani Sondararaj, said fertiliser was very much needed for Nigeria’s food security. He said fertiliser was not available previously and that there was no local producer as it was fully imported. “It was not available for farmers. Now Indorama has come to ensure the availability of fertiliser to Nigerian farmers and there is no more shortage of fertiliser in Nigeria,” he assured. Seven Energy commences gas supply to Notore Shell, partners sign FID for Assa North gas 300mcf/d The quiet gas revolution in Nigeria Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin