Financial analysts at Afrinvest have said the 2019 budget will continue in economic underperformance over the medium-term because “nothing seems to have changed.” Last Tuesday, the National Assembly passed the 2019 Appropriation Bill of the Federal Government into law. This was concluded in record time considering that May 6, 2019, was the earliest time the budget had been passed under the President Buhari administration prior to 2019. Speaking to Daily Trust, the analysts said: “While we should be optimistic of better relations going forward, especially given that the ruling party now has a larger majority in the legislature after the 2019 elections, our expectations are measured. “Our greatest disappointment is that while the 2019 budget could have heralded new beginnings, which should be reforms-driven and growth-supportive, nothing seems to have changed. This further supports our expectation of continued economic underperformance over the medium-term,” they said. The report by the analysts indicated that the lawmakers increased the budget by N86bn to N8.9tn from the initial N8.8tn the Federal Government proposed. However, oil projected assumption was kept at $60 per barrel. They said Brent crude oil price had recently increased from the moderation of oil supply due to Iran sanctions and OPEC output cuts that had brought average daily oil price to $63.5p/b in May, 2019. “The oil production assumption of 2.3mb/d is ambitious as we expect 2.1mb/d in 2019 and the official exchange rate of N305/$ was kept, consistent with the CBN’s stance,” they added. These assumptions, they noted,  translate to a projected oil revenue of N3.7tn (N3.0tn in 2018), which they believe is unrealisable due to the repayment of cash call arrears, petrol subsidies and the prospect of lower than expected oil production. 2019 budget:  Concerns, nuts and bolts Low oil price threatens Nigeria budget, revenue Dogara allays fears over INEC budget for 2019 general elections Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin