The chairman of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido, has said he has had a good working relationship with members of the legislative council. He spoke at the valedictory session of the AMAC Legislative Council, marking the end of the three-year tenure of the legislative calendar. The council was inaugurated on May 23, 2016. “The last three years have been so wonderful, and we have had a very good time and working relationship as we are celebrating the outcome of this good relationship, which has enabled us to achieve a lot of dividends in the grassroots. I don’t regret working with the immediate past councillors, indeed the relationship was superb that is why I appreciate them, and I will miss them,” he said. He, however, urged all elected and appointed office holders not to convert government property into their personal use as he would call for it. Candido said the office holders should concentrate on the good name they have built adding that it was better than any materials they were going to cart away knowingly or unknowingly. “It is just a random warning that in case you know, even if it’s just a pin that was taken to your home, try and bring it back to the council. As one who is overseeing this council, I will call for it. I will ask for things belonging to the government,” he said. He said the legislative arm was an essential ingredient to good governance if the residents were to benefit from the dividends of democracy. Earlier, the Speaker of the AMAC legislative council, Mr Daniel Michael, revealed that during the tenure of the legislative council, it passed eight bylaws that were assented to by the AMAC Chairman. He said the council also amended 27 AMAC bylaws and commended Candido-led AMAC executive for promoting a strong cordial relationship with the legislative arm, thereby fostering inclusive and rapid development of the council. AMAC chairman signs 2019 ‘budget of hope’ I cannot be intimidated – Candido Over 250 youths empowered with my security votes - Candido Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin