There was uncertainty and confusion at the weekend over the purported defection of a former Minister of Works, Sen. Adeseye Ogunlewe, from the PDP to the APC in Lagos. While reports had gone viral about his defection on Friday, the Sen. told Daily Trust that he remained in PDP, saying the report that he had dumped PDP was not true. Daily Trust reports that speculations had been rife in Lagos PDP that Ogunlewe might be on his way out following his seemingly intractable friction with the leadership of the party. Ogunlewe who was Minister of Works between 2003 and 2006 under former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government, had opposed the appointment of the present state Chairman, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, after the resignation of the former Chairman, Mashood Salvador. He also, during the electioneering of the party for the just concluded 2019 elections, criticised the management of the campaign council of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and the governorship running mate to Mr. Jimi Agbaje. It would be recalled that Ogunlewe’s son, Moyosore, who was the PDP House of Assembly candidate for Kosofe I Constituency, resigned his membership of the PDP and joined the ruling APC. When contacted, Ogunlewe, however debunked the report of his defection, saying it was not true. But he warned that the party was bedeviled with many crises which if not urgently resolved could spark exodus of people from the party. He also challenged the legitimacy of the present state executive led by Dr. Adegbola Dominic. But Dominic has said the exit of Ogunlewe would be a good riddance, insisting the former minister contributed to the misfortunes of the party, especially in the last elections. He said his continued stay in the party had caused more damage to the party.  Confusion as Ogunlewe denies dumping PDP for APC Ogunlewe dumps PDP, joins APC Defections show growing confidence in PDP, says Ogunlewe Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin