The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has condemned what it termed the renewed harassment of the Senate President and Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign for the February 23, 2019 election, Senator Bukola Saraki, by the All Progressives Congress APC-led federal government. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, expressed concerns that the government was allegedly using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to witch-hunt the Senate President. The PDP said “the fresh siege” against Senator Saraki was part of the larger plot for a renewed clamp-down on key opposition figures and perceived political opponents of the APC administration, particularly, to frustrate their determination to retrieve “the stolen presidential mandate” at the Tribunal. The PDP cautioned the federal government to retrace its steps on what it termed “the new plot” against opposition leaders in the polity. “Nothing else can explain the Federal Government’s obnoxious and distasteful resort to intimidation and evidence-fishing, just to nail Senator Saraki at all costs, even when nothing incriminating has been found in his stewardship as Governor of Kwara state, after several investigations. “The Federal Government is hounding Senator Saraki even after he has been prosecuted but discharged and acquitted by the Supreme Court, after the government failed to substantiate claims of false asset declaration against him. “The PDP holds that this renewed witch-hunt tailored against Senator Saraki and perceived opposition leaders further confirms that the Buhari Presidency and the APC have become frenetic over the overwhelming evidence that our party will present at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. “Moreover, our party already has information on how certain elements in the APC have plotted to cash in on the new siege to harm key leaders of our party, under certain guise. “The APC is called upon to note that Nigerians are already aware of the truth in all issues leading to this renewed harassment of the Senate President. We insist that no harm must come to Senator Saraki or any member of his family,” the PDP said. PDP alleges fresh 'plot' to remove Saraki Between Saraki, Tinubu: Who laughs last? Saraki finally rejoins PDP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin