Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, has said promised to clear all backlog of salaries owed by the state government to workers before December. The Governor who spoke to newsmen in Kaduna shortly after the Northern State Governors Forum, NSGF, meeting explained that his administration did not incur any debt through the non-payment of salaries due to workers since he assumed office. He said what remains outstanding as workers’ salaries was incurred by the administration that preceded his which was passed to his administration. He said when he came on broad he tried to remove ghost workers and after doing that he has been able to pay all the salaries due to workers during his administration saying what is remaining is what was owed workers during the previous administration. Governor Bello stated that the previous administration applied for N80.5 billion from the Federal Government and that President Muhammadu Buhari approved N50. 8 billion out of the money but that due to his prudence decided to withdraw only N20 billion. He said the utilisation of the 20 billion was published in national dailies including how it was shared with the local governments. The Governor said he is expecting the remaining N30,8 billion to clear the arrears “What is owed by the previous administration is exactly what is owed now. Under my watch, I m not owing a single dine but inherited liability which Mr. President has approved. As soon as we draw that we shall clear all the arrears,” he stated, promising that before December, owing of salaries would be a thing of the past. The Governor assured the people of Kogi State that even without accessing the N30.8 billion that he would raise money and clear the remaining arrears. Despite Paris refund, over 10 states owe salaries, pensions 2019 Polls: States in desperate moves to clear salary backlog Inside Kogi State’s request for Bailout Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin