The Reformed Christian Association of Nigeria (rCAN) has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari over the prompt release of Zainab Aliyu from Saudi Arabian detention. Aliyu, a Nigerian student, was detained over illegal dosage of tramadol found in a bag labelled in her name at a Saudi airport last year. On being alerted, the president ordered the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami to ensure her release. Acting on the instructions of Mr Buhari, the AGF hired lawyers on Tuesday in the gulf country to compliment the Nigerian mission in the Kingdom as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In a statement released on Wednesday by Interim President, Pastor Enoch Atumeyi, the group was particularly impressed by the president’s speedy response in a case that would have potentially led to death penalty. “The Reformed Christian Association of Nigeria (rCAN) commends President Muhammadu Buhari over the reprieve he got for a Nigerian, Zainab Aliyu, who was being held and facing the prospect of execution in Saudi Arabia over drug running charges,” “The freedom procured for Zainab should be a platform from which to launch the primacy of the Nigerian life globally such that Nigerian anywhere in the world are reassured that they will never be left alone. “We appreciate Mr. President and his proactive efforts that delivered a positive intervention, which freed Zainab. Her experience is a wake-up call on the Federal Government to decisively go after the cartels and syndicates that place innocent Nigerians in arms way by sneaking illicit drugs into their luggage, particularly the cartel discovered to be operating at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport,” the statement reads. The Christian group said that all hands must be on deck to ensure the release of other Nigerians languishing in various Saudi detentions. Buhari directs Malami to intervene in Zainab’s case in Saudi Alleged drug trafficking: Why Zainab was freed  by Saudi authorities FG secures release of Zainab from Saudi prison