No fewer than 90 vulnerable people including widows and physically challenged in Oke-Ogun area of Oyo state have benefited from the intervention of the World Bank and the Oyo state government. The programme, which are mainly boreholes and tricycles, was carried out through the Oyo State Community and Social Development Agency (CSDA). The beneficiaries under the umbrella of the Ifedawapo Widows and Physically Challenged Group in Keso community, Olorunsogo Local Government of Oyo State said the group sells water from the boreholes and make money from tricycles distributed for the 90 of them to care for those who are not privileged to get the assistance among them. Many of the beneficiaries who spoke with our correspondent said it was hard for them to cope with challenges of life as they could not fulfil their financial obligations before the intervention. Aderemi Balelayo who is the Chairman of Community Project Management Committee (CPMC) in Ifedawapo Widows and Physically Challege Group in Keso community, Olorunsogo Local Government of Oyo State, where a motorised borehole was drilled and tricycles/carriages distributed said life was unbearable for his people before the intervention of CSDP, adding they could not feed themselves. He said: “We struggled to feed ourselves because of the environment we found ourselves. We didnt have any hope than to look unto God. “We faced a lot of challenges before the intervention of this projects, but today, our story is different as we can now live above poverty. In fact, many of us are doing daily contributions. We thank God and the initiators of this projects.” Taiwo Abolade, a beneficiary and a physically challenged said when the project was introduced to the intervention, he thought it was a joke because many unfulfilled promises have been made for them before now. He said, “It was difficult for us to eat and take care of our family. Our member didn’t have power to provide for their families  since they are not able bodies. For the widows, you know it is not easy for them to cope.”  NYSC members in Oyo community laud World Bank, govt on accommodation FG distributes 150 tricycles to women, youth in C/River Potable water, after decades of epidemic Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin