The Nigerian Army Officers Wives Association (NAOWA) on Thursday donated food items and other essential items to three orphanage homes in Kaduna where they decried the high rate of abandoned children in the society. President, 1 Division Nigerian Army chapter of NAOWA, Mrs. Salamatu Faruq Yahaya who led the visit to the orphanage therefore called on well meaning individuals and corporate bodies to assist the downtrodden and less privileged members of the society through adoption of such orphans. She explained that the reach out to the orphanage was part of the association’s activities for the second quarter of 2019, aimed at giving succour to the less privileged. She disclosed that the gesture would also be extended to widows in the barracks. The Association’s President appealed to governments and non-governmental associations to accord priority to the less privileged no matter how little so as to give them a sense of belonging. Responding, Co-ordinator of Jam’iyyar Matan Arewa orphanage home, Hajiya Maryam Ahmad Tahir expressed gratitude to the Association for the kind gesture, stressing that it would remain indelible in their hearts. The orphanage homes visited by the Association include, Jam’iyyar Matan Arewa orphanage home, State owned Magajin Gari orphanage home, and Faith Works Orphanage Ministry. Some of the relief materials donated by the association include fifteen assorted bags of rice, three bags of millet, three bags of guinea corn, three bags of sugar and six cartons of milk. Others include six sacks of detergent, three cartons of soap, six jerrycans of vegetable oil and bedsheets, among others. NAOWA donates to orphanage Day grieving families of fallen heroes got relief At 150 years, Army takes stock Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin