Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said that the “Kano State Emirs Appointment and Deposition Amendment Law 2019” has already been gazetted, hence it will not be reversed. Ganduje made the statement at a ceremony organised by the newly appointed emirs of Gaya, Rano, Bichi and Karaye in appreciation of their appointment. Governor Ganduje therefore, urged all district heads and chief Imams under the territories of the new emirs to pay homage to them tomorrow, Sunday. He called on the new emirs to dedicate themselves in promoting agriculture, health and education, adding that the new emirs should ensure that their subjects embrace the practice of dry and rainy season farming. “You should ensure that your subjects enroll their wards in school while women encouraged to always visit hospital whenever they are pregnant. “We have uncovered move by some bad elements in the state. The protest was aimed at disrupting peace in Kano, but that would not deter our stance in creation of the new Emirate Councils,” he said. “We created the emirates in order to reduce the burden on the Kano emirate. The challenges are too weighty on Kano emirate that is why the emirate is running away from centralization of the system. “The creation of the additional emirates will allow us to re-examine history. This is not something new in Kano, it has happened before. “We created emirates based on the aspirations and yearnings of our people. I am sure this development will lead to rapid development in the affected areas.” In his speech, the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero assured government that they would support government in ensuring security in their respective domains. Bayero urged Kano people to remain calm and embrace any policy or programme introduced by government. He charged youth to shun all forms of social vices especially drugs abuse, noting that no society could develop with addicted youths. BREAKING: Ganduje assents bill creating new emirates in Kano Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano BREAKING: Ganduje appoints Ado Bayero's son, 3 others emirs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin