The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) has rolled out plans in commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Convention of the Rights of the Child (CRC). The Convention on the CRC which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations by its resolution of 20th November, 1989 has the same meaning for people in all parts of the world. While laying down common standards, the Convention takes into account the different cultural, social economic and political realities of individual States so that each state may seek its own means to implement the rights common to all. 25 States in Nigeria including the FCT have signed the CRA into law while the remaining 11 States are yet to do so. The Head, Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information (CRIB), Olumide Osanyipeju at the opening of a two-day media workshop on CRC in Lagos said, a comprehensive statement on children’s right which would be binding under international law became necessary with reports of grave injustice suffered by children ranging from high infant mortality, deficient health care, limited opportunities for basic education, alarming accounts of children being abused and exploited as prostitutes or in harmful jobs, children in prison or in other difficult circumstances. He said, the need to uphold the realisation of the rights of children can never be over emphasised adding that it is equally worthy to note that it has really been an uphill task bringing to fruition the total realisation of children’s rights in our society, especiaiiy in the rural terrains which constitute the bulk of our society and where a vast majority of our people are not literate. “The situation that stares us in the face is the tall order to bring our people to understand that children reserve as much fundamental rights as the adults, and the need to protect the rights of our children at risk of deprivations of basic social benefits, in exploitative and difficult circumstances and even mortality.” Olumide stated that the workshop is aimed at equipping participants with relevant knowledge of CRC as it relates to Nigeria while exposing participants to the concept of four principles of the convention that is; Non-discrimination; Best interest of the child; the views on the development by the child, and the right to life, survival and development. “We are thus at that point where we need to understand that lack of access to basic developmental, survival, protection and participatory needs is an infringement on the rights of a child. Thus, the need to ensure that children are empowered all round to take their pride of place in our society and the world at large.” “This is a realisation that all children have a right to better life, an opportunity to survive, develop and reach their full potentials; and this can only be attained by upholding the Convention on the Rights of the Child.” He added that as we prepare for the commemoration of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at 30, we are called upon to focus on promoting all opportunities that will help children develop soundly as this connotes a giant stride towards the realisation of the fundamental rights of children. UNICEF Child Protection Specialist, Sharon Oladiji in her presentation said, the rights of children covers every aspect of lives and adolescence. She said, the rights of the child is divided into four which includes; survival, development, protection and participation rights. 25 years of children’s rights in Nigeria What hope for the Nigerian Child? Africa and protection of children’s rights Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin