School of Media and Communication (SMC), Pan Atlantic University (PAU) has introduced a new programme, MSc in Film Production aimed at deepening expertise in Nollywood.  The Dean, Dr. Ikechukwu Obiaya on Wednesday announced the commencement of admissions for the new programme at a media briefing, saying, it will cover four key knowledge areas including: Scripting and Directing for the Screen; Cinematography; Editing for the Screen and Sound Design for the Screen.  The course he also said offers specialisation options in seven major film production areas of short film; documentary; interview and feature film, serial drama, commercial filmlet and music video.  According to him, a target of 30-60 students are expected to commence studies for the programme in October 2019 as the University sets to produce industry-ready graduates for the ‘new Nollywood of global standards’. He boasted that the School has first-rate facilities for the study of film including four studios for audio-visual, sound and audio engineering, four editing suites and 50 units each of Apple and Windows workstations graphics and animation suite.  “The course starts amid renewed global interest in the study of Nollywood sparked by its mention as one of three market-creating innovations in an essay in the January-February 2019 issue of Harvard Business Review. Harvard scholarsClayton M. Christensen, Efosa Ojomo and Karen Dillon (2019) in ‘Cracking Frontier Markets’, analysed Nollywood from the perspective of market-leading innovation,”  “SMC will run the programme on the back of its deep interest in the industry including its Nollywood Studies Centre with a stock of over 10,000 films, and its ongoing collaboration with the industry serving as curriculum guide for the DSTV Multichoice Talent Factory Academy,” noting that the course which targets Nigeria and Africa will cover five to seven semesters depending on the stream the student enters for. Pan Atlantic University introduces MSc in film production My journey as a filmmaker  – Ishaq  Sidi Ishaq Echoes from the Kenyan Nollywood road show Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin