The Catholic Women Organisation (CWO), Holy Cross Catholic Church Gwarinpa (11), Abuja, has urged the Federal Government to enforce laws against child labour in the country. The President of CWO, Mrs Ukpo Amoroban, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Sunday that the practice has continued to flourish in spite of government’s good polices against it. “Child labour has brought poor reputation to our nation today. Our main economic problem is child labour, since we began on the path of nationhood,” she said. She also said that child labour has become widespread and occupied a preeminent position among the ills that pervade the society. The Secretary of CWO, Mrs Chizoba Ugwu, on her part said children work for a variety of reasons which include poverty and a child’s need to contribute to the family’s economy. Ugwu said that conflict and natural disasters as well as drought could also determine whether children need to work to support their families. “Do you remember that time when you were a little kid and you came home from a fun day at school, put your book bag down, and went to play with friends outside? Then you came home, did a little bit of homework, and had a great meal with your family before watching some TV and going to bed. “Some kids can’t even dream of that because they don’t have a normal childhood. They are forced, through one circumstance or another, into foregoing such nice memories and days because they have to work for 18 hours a day. “They will never be able to look back, as an adult, and reminisce about days like yours. Yes, many little kids work hours on end for their entire childhood. That’s child labour, and it has very real effects on children,” she said. Why FG must enforce laws against child labour - Catholic women Trafficking: WOTCLEF urges parents to be vigilant, stop engaging children in labour Kaduna Assembly passes Child Protection Law Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin