A former governor of Ogun state, Otunba Gbenga Daniel has come hard on his successor and outgoing governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun over allegation that he (Amosun) inherited “a failed state” upon assumption of office in 2011. Daily Trust recalls that Amosun last Thursday alleged that Daniel who ruled between 2003 and 2011 bequeathed a state marred with bad economy, deplorable infrastructure and insecurity, thereby discouraging investors to come to the state. Amosun who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Taiwo Adeoluwa, spoke at the launch of Ogun State Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency. But Daniel popularly known as OGD in a statement made available to Daily Trust in Abeokuta, took Amosun to the cleaners, describing his allegation as “pathological and needless lies.” The statement which was signed by Daniel’s Media Consultant, Steve Oliyide, said Amosun’s reference of Ogun State of 2011 “as having failed” smacked “ignorance and insulting the sensibilities of the citizens and workers who daily toil to give their utmost best in service to the state.” He submitted that “the greatest amount of investments, many of them with far reaching positive implications on the economy and lives of the citizens of the state were attracted between the year 2003 and 2011.” Daniel added that Amosun lacks “moral credential to talk on security in a state, as there are several evidence and proofs that he is actually the purveyor and sponsor of violence.” “In the last eight years, most citizens of Ogun state have come to an unwritten agreement about Mr. Amosun’s penchant for lies, an attribute which has become pathological with and second nature to him; he has earned several infamous sobriquets around this. “It is on record that the greatest amount of investments, many of them with far reaching positive implications on the economy and lives of the citizens of the state were attracted between the year 2003 and 2011. “The fact that Mr. Amosun tried to undo these investments did not remove from their timeless values as economic drivers for the overall development of Ogun state,” the statement said. I inherited a failed state in 2011, says Amosun Ogun APC guber ticket: Amosun adamant, says no going back on Akinlade Ogun 2019: It is battle between APC and APM Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin