The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Friday presented certificates of return to 24 members of the Zamfara State House of Assembly following the verdict of the Supreme Court. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Supreme Court had last Friday nullified all APC votes at the 2019 general elections in Zamfara state and ruled that the party had no candidates. The five-member panel of justices in a unanimous judgement held that the party failed to conduct primary elections in accordance with the party’s rules. The judgement declared that the political party that scored the second highest number of votes other than the APC in the elections should be declared winner of the polls. Out of the 24 lawmakers who received the certificates, 23 were from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and one came under the platform of the National Rescue Movement (NRM). The certificates were issued to the lawmakers by the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in the state, Dr Asma’u Maikudi. The names of the lawmakers who received certificate and their constituencies were as follows: Kaura Namoda North, Zaharadeen M Sada, PDP Kaura Namoda South, Ana’s Sarkin Fada, PDP Birnin Magaji, Nura Dahiru, PDP Zurmi East, Salisu Usman, PDP Zurmi West, Nasiru Mu’azu, PDP Shinkafi, Muhammad G Ahmad, PDP Tsafe East, Musa Bawa Musa, PDP Tsafe West, Aliyu Na-Maigora, PDP Gusau 1, Ibrahim Naida, PDP Gusau 2, Shafi’u Dama, PDP Bungudu East, Kabiru Magaji, PDP Bungudu West, Nasiru Bello Lawal, PDP Maru North, Yusuf Alhassan Muhammad, PDP Maru Sourh, Kabiru Hashimu, NRM Anka, Yusuf Muhammad, PDP Talata Mafara North, Shamsudeen Hassan, PDP Talata Mafara South, Aminu Yusuf Jangebe, PDP Bakura, Tukur Jekada Birnin Tudu, PDP Maradun I, Faruk Musa Dosara, PDP Maradun II, Nasiru Atiku, PDP Gummi I, AbdulNasir Ibrahim, PDP Gummi II, Mansur Mohammed, PDP Bukkuyum North, Ibrahim Mohammed Na’Idda, PDP Bukkuyum South, Sani Dahiru, In his remarks, Gov. Bello Matawallen-Maradun described the occasion as a welcome development. Matawallen-Maradun represented by his deputy, Alhaji Mahadi Aliyu-Gusau congratulated the lawmakers for the victory which he described as a ‘victory for democracy’ in Nigeria. He urged the lawmakers to provide legislation that would provide solutions to various challenges of the state. He appealed to people of the state to support the new government with prayers to succeed in the task ahead to rescue the state from insecurity, kidnappings among other ills. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of INEC for the state, Maikudi represented by the Secretary of the Commission, Hassan Sidi, urged the lawmakers to carry out people oriented legislations that would enhance the provision of dividends of democracy to the people of the state and attainment of democratic advancement in the country. He thanked all stakeholders who contributed to the success of the 2019 general elections in the state. Responding on behalf of the lawmakers, Muhammad G-Ahmad from Shinkafi constituency (PDP) commended the Nigerian Judiciary for allowing justice to reign in the country. G-Ahmed also thanked INEC for conducting free, fair and credible elections in the state. He assured the people of the support and cooperation of the 9th assembly’s determination and commitment to move the state forward. (NAN) INEC Concludes On Zamfara: Mutawalle now governor-elect Matawalle receives INEC certificate as Zamfara gov-elect Zamfara: INEC withdraws 64 certificates of return - Yakubu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin