The police in Lagos have arrested four suspected armed cultists and robbers who have been terrorizing residents of Fadeyi in Somolu Local Government Area of Lagos State. The suspects who are now cooling their heels with men of the Lagos State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) are- Waziri Yusufu; Tega Michael; Afolabi Alabi and Murphy Etu. According to the residents, the suspects were arrested by the Police last week Wednesday, at Isheri, with high caliber rifles and other ammunition. The community, in a petition by their lawyer, Greg I. Aghedo, to the State’s Commissioner of Police, is asking for thorough investigation by the police and to ensure that the truth is revealed in the case of the four whom the residents alleged have been terrorizing their environs and have killed many innocent citizens in the area without any justifiable reason. The residents also call on the Commissioner of Police to ensure that men of the Nigerian police under his command did not cover up anything in their investigation as several of their complainants about the activities of the arrested cultists and other criminals in the area to the police in the past have either been ignored or swept under the carpet. The community’s petition dated May 16, 2019 and captioned, “Serial murder, cultism, banditry and other grave acts of criminality by Waziri Yusuf, Tega Michael, Afolabi Alabi, Murphy Etu and several others”, was written  on behalf of the Ayodele Street community and adjoining areas of Fadeyi, Somolu Area of Lagos State was signed by  one Mrs. Suliyat Asekun and Kola Olusanya. “Our clients are complainants against the above mentioned persons who were arrested by your men of the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad (FSARS) and currently in your custody on charges of Armed Robbery, illegal possession of fire arms. Before the arrest of these suspects, they had committed several murders. These include the murder of the husband of the above mentioned Mrs. Suliyat Asekun. The case is before the Anti- Homicide department of the State Department of Criminal Investigations, Yaba. “Sir, the above mentioned persons have always managed to escape from justice. It was with great joy and relief when information got to our clients that they had been arrested by the Isheri Division of the Lagos Command and had been transferred to FSARS Office lkeja”. The residents in their appeal to the State’s Commissioner of Police also promised to assist the police in its investigation on the arrested persons. “Our clients seek justice and are willing to assist the police in unraveling a lot of information to help apprehend other suspects at large and most importantly our clients seek for justice” 3 suspected cultists burnt in Ilorin...12 injured, 18 arrested Police parade 13 robbery suspects in Jigawa Police arrest 69 cattle rustlers, bandits in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin