A 55-year-old man, Wasiu Taliatu, and his 21-year-old son, Wale Agoro, have been dragged before an Odigbo magistrate court in Odigbo local government area of Ondo State for allegedly obtaining N1.06 million from a woman under false presence. Taliatu was joined in the case for allegedly hiding his son, Agoro, from the police in the hunt for him and, thereby, obstructing the course of justice. The two accused persons were said to have conspired and fraudulently obtained the money from Mrs Sade Alimi with a promise to supply her with 154 kegs of 30 litres of palm oil. Police prosecutor, Sergeant Muideen Yekini, told the court that Taliatu and Agoro, however, converted the money to personal use. They were also said to have withheld two car batteries valued at N26,000, three wheel spanners valued at N7,000, a car jack worth N5,000 and 154 empty kegs valued at N22,000, property of Mrs Alimi. The prosecution told the court that it was Agoro who actually perpetrated the fraud offence on March 24, 2019 at about 7.30am at Ajegunle Street, Ore, Ondo State but Taliatu thwarted efforts to arrest his son until detectives nabbed him in their family house in Osun State through mobile phone tracking. The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the four-count charge of conspiracy and stealing. The lawyer to the accused, Miss Olamide Ajayi, prayed the court to grant the first accused, Taliatu, bail on liberal terms because he was not directly involved in the commission of the crime. Magistrate T.J. Ajayi, consequently granted the father bail in the sum of N200,000, with two sureties in like sum, while the second accused was remanded in prison custody. The case was adjourned till May 30, 2019 for hearing.  Erinmo: Confusion in Osun as two monarchs reign in one town Woman, 55, arraigned over N1.2m fraud Man in court over alleged N1, 000 theft Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin