Three men – Ibrahim Shaibu, 25; Abubakar Ibrahim, 24; and Mohammed Bello 24 –  accused of robbing a construction company in Ondo State, have been ordered to be remanded in prison custody by an Akure chief magistrate court. The accused persons were arraigned on a two-count charge of conspiracy and armed robbery. The prosecution said the accused persons committed the offence on April 21, 2019 at about 1.30pm at a granite site opposite the tomatoes market, Omifon, Ondo State. They were also alleged to have been armed with gun, cutlasses and other offensive weapons at the time. The prosecution told the court that the accused persons attacked Francis Abiodun Ademola and Oluwadamilare Adedeji, a night guard attached to Crunberg Construction Company Nigeria Limited, after which they robbed the company. They were alleged to have robbed the company of the following items: two caterpillar batteries, two battery cables, four battery terminals, two oil cooler hoses, four head light plugs, electrical harvest cables and 150 litres of hydraulic oil, all valued at about N613,600. The pleas of the accused persons were not taken when the charge was read to them. Police prosecutor, Sergeant Suleiman Abdulateef, prayed the court to remand the defendants in prison custody pending the issuance of legal advice from the Ondo State Director of Public Prosecution. Defence counsels, Chief Obafemi Bawa and Mr I. Bewaji, did not oppose the remand application made by the prosecutor. Chief Magistrate Victoria Bob-Manuel held that the matter was an armed robbery case, which the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain. Bob-Manuel ordered the remand of the three accused persons in Olokuta prison pending the outcome of legal advice.  Court remands 10 robbery suspects Father, son docked over N1m fraud 5 suspects remanded in Olokuta prison over Idoani bank robbery Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin