The Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, on Saturday said that political godfathers can be defeated in Lagos state. According to Punch, the Kaduna State Governor spoke in Ikoyi, Lagos, at an event organised by the Bridge Club tagged, “An evening with His Excellency Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State.” El-Rufai said that he defeated and retired four political godfathers in Kaduna State, saying the feat could be replicated anywhere, including Lagos State. In his main speech, El-Rufai had encouraged the club members, who are businessmen, not to shy away from politics, saying it was more important than making money as bad politics could mess up their businesses. “Godfatherism. This is Lagos. Let me tell you something sir; you know, Kaduna State used to be like that. There were three or four politicians in Kaduna that you could not become anything unless you had them on your side. Those were the godfathers of Kaduna politics and you had to carry them along and you know, the three words, ‘carry them along’ mean paying them regularly. “But we chose a different path and the long and short of it now is that after this election in 2019, we have retired all of them; we had to,” El-rufai said in response to the question raised by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and three-time commissioner in Lagos State, Dr Muiz Banire on how godfathership can be dealt with. He added that, “Here in Lagos, you have over six million registered voters, only about a million voted (in 2019 general elections); five million did not vote. If I want to run for governor of Lagos, I will start now. I will commission a study to know why those five million registered voters did not vote; where do they go on election day? Then I will start visiting them for the next four years. I will try and get just two million of them to come and vote for me; I will defeat any godfather. The key is to go to the people. The card reader and the biometric register have given us the tools to connect directly with the people. I assure you if you do that for the next four years, connecting with the people; the tin godfather, you will retire him or her permanently. But it is hard work; it requires three to four years of hard work. So, if you want to run in 2023, you should start now.” On the question of money, El-Rufai said it would require about N2bn to do the job, which he said the businessmen could provide. “With about N2bn; if you start, you see these guys with black ties, they will give you the N2bn. Many of the godfathers are either on paper or in the mind of people in politics. They are defeatable. We retired four of them in Kaduna State within a four-year time and they are gone. One of them boasted that he put me in the government house and he would take me out.” Lagos state governor Akinwumi Ambode lost the All Progressives Congress, APC governorship primary election to Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu,the preferred candidate of APC national leader and former governor of Lagos state, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Sanwo-Olu polled 739, 445 votes to defeat his arch-rival, Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who secured 206,141 votes in the governorship election. 2019: Shehu Sani will be defeated - El-Rufai Why Kaduna APC leaders want Buhari, El-Rufai re-elected CSOs protest at US Embassy over El-Rufai’s ‘body-bag’ comment Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin