The Nigerian Air Force, NAF, on Saturday, inaugurated a 271 detachment in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State, as part of efforts to tackle security challenges in the country. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 271 NAF Detachment was established as a blocking force for troops involved in Operation DIRAN MIKIYA and SHARAN DAJI. Governor Nasir El-Rufai said the establishment of 271 NAF detachment in Birnin Gwari and instituting the necessary infrastructure was to ensure that Nigeria could meet and conquer many security challenges it was currently facing. “I have no doubt that your efforts will continue to keep our country safe and our economy growing,” El-Rufai said. According to him, the prevalence of terrorism, banditry and kidnapping has increased in recent times. “And we are grateful that the Armed Forces of Nigeria, particularly the NAF, is boosting security operations and developing even more effective strategies to end this menace. “The establishment of the 271 NAF Detachment in Birnin Gwari is therefore, timely as it will further boost the ongoing Operation DIRAN MIKIYA, Operation SHARAN DAJI and play a very crucial role in restoring and maintaining the peace in all affected areas. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar, said, NAF, for some time now had been involved in various internal security operations in the country, either singularly or in conjunction with sister security agencies. Abubakar said one of such operations was Operation DIRAN MIKIYA, which was intended to neutralise and flush out bandits and kidnappers as well as cattle rustlers operating in the North-West. “Accordingly, the 271 NAF Detachment was established as a blocking force for troops involved in Operation DIRAN MIKIYA and SHARAN DAJI. “The Air Chief NAF is committed to seeing that the territorial integrity of our dear country is preserved as this is the only country we can call our own. “It is our desire, therefore, to ensure that the menace of terrorism, kidnapping, cattle rustling and armed banditry are curtailed, if not completely eradicated,” he said. He added that the establishment of 271 NAF Detachment Birnin Gwari would not have been possible without the full support of the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari. (NAN) El-Rufai urges air chief to deploy “special forces” to Abuja-Kaduna road Banditry: Nigerian Airforce to establish operational base in Kaduna's Birnin Gwari – CAS Banditry: NAF to establish operational base in Birnin Gwari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin