Days after the popular Caramelo nightclub was demolished by the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) due to violations of land use, the area has since been taken over by several scavengers popularly known as Baban Bola. Most of the scavengers were seen with not only the usual carts they use but they came with mini trucks to pack whatever their hands could pick from the debris of the once effervescing entertainment hub in Utako. The presence of a stationed police van which was brought by the Caramelo’s boss to prevent the scavengers from carting away some valuables under the rubble did not deter them. Our reporter who visited the area observed that apart from the presence of the scavengers, there was relative calmness in the area. Some of the residents who spoke to City News  expressed satisfaction over the demolition as they can now have  peaceful and sound sleep without being woken up from the heavy noise coming from the club. Mrs. Zainab Muhammad, a resident “ it’s been a week now after the demolition and we are so happy about it because we can now sleep with our  two eyes closed peacefully and our children are safe from being influenced negatively” she said. “In fact it is that bad because you will hear your child singing some worldly songs that comes from the club so all I will say is Alhamdulillah” Another security man who identified himself as Bala said there  has been relief in the area ever since the demolition took place, adding that one cannot even park one’s car outside safely without being stolen. The Coordinator Abuja Metropolitan Management Council AMMC Tpl. Umar Shaibu said they have served several clubs located in residential areas in the FCT notice of two weeks to convert to its actual use or face revocation. FCTA, reconsider ban on scavengers Scavengers rebrand at Kuje to earn respect Scavengers: We don’t steal, we only value waste products Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin