The Kwara State High Court is to strike out the suit seeking to disqualify the Governor-elect, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, at the request of the petitioner. Adekunle Oluwafemi Abraham said in a notice of discontinuance of Suit No. KWS/73/2019 that he “hereby wholly discontinue” the case against the defendant. The application was dated May 21, and filed May 22. Abraham, a member of the PDP, did not state any reason for the sudden decision to terminate the case. However, sources within the court said his decision was predicated on the filing of the official confirmation of AbdulRazaq’s WAEC certificate in the respondent’s proof of evidence. The confirmation was sent by the examination body through the legal team that had earlier applied for same. “Not only this, the governor-elect’s legal team has also filed a number of depositions that proved Abraham’s claim that WAEC doesn’t issue certificates with initials to be false,” said one of the sources. In view of Abraham’s application, the court will strike out the case at the next adjournment date in June. Meanwhile, the governorship petition tribunal sitting in Ilorin, had fixed June 13 and 14 for the commencement of trial in PDP’s petition challenging the declaration of AbdulRazaq as governor. The PDP claimed the governor-elect did not have secondary school leaving certificate, which was the legal prerequisite for anyone running for the office of governor; a claim AbdulRazaq insisted was false. Chairman of the three-man tribunal, Bassey Effiong, announced the date after listening to counsel to the parties in the case at the continuation of the pre-hearing session yesterday. Plaintiff asks court to discontinue certificate case against Kwara Gov-elect Alleged certificate forgery: Court fixes June 10 for Kwara governor-elect’s trial Certificate scandals threaten 2019 dreams Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin