A Bauchi-based women group, Bauchi State Women Coalition for Sustainable Peace and Viable Democratic Gains, has threatened to initiate a recall process of lawmakers who sent a bill to repeal the law for public assets recovery in the state. The law, tagged “Bauchi State public property and fund recovery tribunal law” was enacted in 2017 which empowers government to recover looted properties and funds from public officers. The group, led by Hajiya Addaji Mohammed, disclosed this after special prayers for successful handing over of the affairs of the State to Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed on 29th may 2019. The group condemned the two bills passed by the state House of Assembly on Wednesday 15th May 2019, barring government’s panels or committees from probing and recovering public properties and funds from suspected corrupt public office holders in the state and the bill to created district villages and Hamlet’s heads. It described the action as wickedness against the people of the state and lack of patriotism, adding that it was improper for the lawmakers to pass the bill. According to the group, the outgoing governor seized what he called looted government properties from aides and officials that served former Governor Isa Yuguda but he doesn’t want the law to try him after he left office. “The action of the 13 law makers contradicts section 15 (5) of the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended which states that ‘the state shall abolish all corrupt practices and abuse of power’. Such action undermines democratic process. “Our stance in condemning the latest bill to repeal the existing law (Bauchi State public property and fund recovery tribunal law 2017) because it has been of great benefit to Bauchi State citizens through prudence management of public property and funds even those who won their elections among the 13 law makers, we will mobilize women and initiate the recall of the law makers for showing unpatriotic conduct by repelling the anti graft law,” the group added. Assets Recovery: New Bauchi Assembly bill against people’s interest – CSOs Controversy trails repeal of Bauchi assets recovery law Bala, Ningi’s subtle battle for Bauchi PDP guber ticket Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin