The Nigeria Governors’ Forum [NGF] Monday warned of a possible relapse of the country’s economy back into recession, but the Central Bank of Nigeria [CBN] says the states’ chief executive officers only cried wolf where none exists.  The Central Bank Tuesday dismissed fears expressed Monday by the state governors that Nigeria is heading for another recession. The governors’ forum through its chairman and governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, had warned that Nigeria may enter into another recession next year if urgent measures were not taken to address the current unfavourable economic trends. He gave the warning during the induction programme for governors-elect and returning governors organized by the NGF Secretariat in Abuja. “This scenario is a wakeup call for all of you to come amply prepared to face these kinds of challenges, especially since we are expecting the possibility of another cycle of recession by mid-2020 which may last up to the third quarter of 2021. Your good spirit of stewardship will enable you contain the situation should there be one,” he said. He also enjoined governors to boost the economy in line with global best practices. Governor Yari said the country must look seriously into the need to diversify the economy by investing enormous resources in agriculture and mining, in order for the country’s economy to be on the right track and to insulate it from frequent crises as a result of absolute reliance on oil. CBN disgrees In a swift reaction, the apex bank said Nigeria is currently experiencing a steady but marginal growth, just as it is already coming out of high inflation. At the unveiling of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) regional economic outlook for sub-Saharan Africa in Abuja Tuesday, the CBN deputy governor for Economic Policy Directorate, Joseph Nnana, said: “Right now, we are on the path of achieving our price stability goal of single-digit inflation. Are we going to witness increased inflation or are we sliding back into recession? My answer is no. We are making smooth progress towards growth and by the end of 2019, all things being equal, we are going to likely have between 2.8 and 3 per cent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate.” Nnana, however, said the GDP growth was not adequate, noting that Nigeria currently has a three per cent GDP real growth rate, with a population growth rate of 3.2 per cent. “Per capita growth rate is still negative but definitely, we are not going through the era of 2016 when we had a recession. That won’t happen. Hopefully, not under the CBN watch,” he said. On the state of the economy, Nnana said for the money market, “Our promise to external investors be they portfolio investors or foreign direct investors is that we are going to continue to maintain positive relationship. And the yield in Nigeria is comparative if not superior to the yield in other emerging market economies. “Those who want to invest in the last frontier market, the place to be is here,” Nnana stated, adding, “Our  I&E window is a market for willing sellers and willing buyers. The CBN will not intervene in that market to fix prices.’’ Infrastructure deficits exits But the CBN also agreed that the country has huge a infrastructure deficit. “We also have a huge infrastructure deficit. Infrastructure is the major constraint to economic development and growth. This has to be repaired,” he said. Similarly, an analyst on the economy, Mathew Ogagavworia, said there is currently no economic indicator to suggest that a recession is eminent but he however opined that the alarm was meant to put everyone on notice that there is the need to enhance productivity. In the same vein, the International Monetary Fund [IMF] said the country’s current growth was hovering around two-and-half per cent. In its current outlook on Nigeria, the Bretton Woods institution said the country’s economy is recovering but the challenges are there, adding that the growth rate was 1.9 per cent in 2018; up from 0.8 per cent in 2017, while per capital growth remains negative. The IMF also said Nigeria’s non-oil revenue mobilisation (3.4 per cent of GDP) is still one of the lowest in the world. IMF offers solutions As a remedy, the IMF said immediate actions were needed to realise Nigeria’s growth potential, revenue-based fiscal consolidation to create space for higher capital and priority spending while improving spending efficiency. It advised Nigeria to maintain a tight monetary policy while adopting a unified market-determined exchange rate and strengthening the banking sector’s resilience. “Addressing structural challenges to boost the diversification of the business environment, governance, power sector reform, public investment efficiency, health and education, financial inclusion, gender equality, structural reforms to boost diversification are also critical,” the IMF stated. Marginal growth ‘ll be sustained-Ministry The Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, Mohammed Dikwa, who spoke for the Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zaynab Ahmed, said although Nigeria’s growth is marginal, it would be sustained. He said the government would continue to put in more efforts to ensure that the right things are done to strengthen the economy. Dikwa said 30 per cent of the revenue that comes into the consolidated account was being spent on the implementation of the budget. The permanent secretary said the government was working hard to lift Nigerians out of poverty, create jobs and increase financial releases for infrastructure funding while expanding tax levies, with focus on the search for alternative sources of revenue. However, some economic and financial experts as well as industrialists have said that the NGF’s warning is realistic. ‘Nigeria in need of micro-economic reforms’ An expert in microeconomic analysis, Mr. Abiola Rasaq, said Nigeria’s economy needs macro-economic reforms to avert the risk of slipping into recession. Rasaq, who is the Head of Investor Relations at United Bank for Africa, said while he was constructive on the Nigerian economy this year and 2020, he was elated that Nigerian leaders are discussing the risks to sustaining the slow recovery of the economy. “It reinforces the need and hopefully may stimulate the political will to proactively execute overdue macro reforms that can potentially accelerate economic growth and avert the risk of slipping into recession,” he said. The former Head of Research at UBA Capital Plc, Research Division, said from the oil sector to the non-oil sector, agric and manufacturing to power and infrastructure, the government needs to change the narrative as a regime of government doing it all has not worked anywhere and Nigeria is not an exemption. He said there is a number of quick-wins, even so requiring strong political will and tenacity, adding that from monetary policies to fiscal policies, there is a lot that need to be done. “Take infrastructure for instance, why not deregulate key infrastructure and get private capital to work and mostly stimulate private sector capital to the sector through  guarantees from the likes of InfraCredit to demonstrate the investment viability of the sector and ensure that rule of law gives confidence and comfort to private investors, local and foreign,” he said. He recommended that the government needs to set the rules and objectives without fear or favour, support the private sector and set regulations where need be, and prosecute objectively through an effective judiciary. He expressed disappointment in the current situation where almost half of the power generation capacity is stranded due to avoidable factors as such is less likely in a fully liberalised environment. Economic recession next year realistic if-LCCI The Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf, said in Lagos on Monday that the nation may be plunged into another recession if the economy continues to run on an unviable fiscal regime, unsustainable indebtedness as well as huge cost of governance. He said: “Our experience in the Nigerian economy over the years is that the issue of recession is often driven by external factors such as oil price. If the oil price is going at the current price, we may not have any cause to fear. But if the price drops below $50 per barrel consistently or there is a major problem in the non-oil sector that affects agriculture, then, there is something to be worried about as there may be serious dislocation in the economy.”  Industrialists, experts react as govs warn of another recession next year Yari tasks governors elect to brace-up against possible economic recession in 2020 Don’t ignore CBN’s recession warning, expert tells FG Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin