A staff of Toto Local Government in Nasarawa state, Mohammad Shuaibu, has been killed and his wife kidnapped for ransom. A resident of the council area, Abdullahi Ahmed, told Daily Trust that, “the deceased was gruesomely killed by the gun wielding bandits five days ago and his wife, Mallama Zainab Salihu, was kidnapped as a ransom of N2million was placed on her” by her abductors. Another source added that the armed bandits on Saturday night kidnapped Basaru Rukaiya, Aishat Zakari, Chinedu Ide, Reuben Ibrahim and Vivian Ibrahim all of Yelwa village of Toto local government. The source added that on Sunday afternoon, the kidnappers at gun point also kidnapped Alhaji Mohammad Shuaibu at Unguwan Bai all in the same Toto local government. It will be recalled that Toto local government shares borders with Abuja and Kogi state. The chairman of the local government was not available for official comments when contacted by our reporter as his mobile line wasn’t connecting. When contacted, Nasarawa state Police Commissioner, Mr Bola Longe, told Daily Trust: “I have information of only two kidnappers and the police are investigating the matter. “When I assumed duty, I personally cleared the area of criminals and there was peace until when this criminals came back to distort the peace that has enveloped the state. “I am appealing to the good people of Nasarawa state to endeavour to inform the police through community policing to fight crime; all suspicious activity in their towns and villages should be reported. “I have directed my officers and men to pursue the criminals in their hideout to return peace to the state.” In Kogi, kidnapping for ransom thrives Kidnappers return with big bang 32 royal fathers kidnapped in 4 years Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin