A 59-year-old landlord Christopher Mbagwu was, on Tuesday, docked at an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly removing a tenant’s door and windows. Mbagwu, a residing at Ijeshatedo, Lagos, is being tried on a two-count charge of breach of peace and damage. The Police Prosecutor, Insp. Aondohemba Koti, had told the court that the defendant committed the offences on March 22 at Ijeshatedo. Koti said that the defendant conducted himself in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by removing the door and windows of his tenant’s apartment, Mrs Modesta Azoribe. “The defendant exposed the complainant and her children to moral danger by unlawfully removing the door and windows of her three bedroom apartment.” The prosecutor said that the complainant had been paying her rent to the defendant’s younger brother, whom the landlord appointed to collect rent and was surprised over the action of the defendant. “The defendant, one of the landlord sons, just came to the house, ignoring the complainant and started removing the windows and the door but in the process of removing the windows, he damaged some windows. “The defendant wanted to illegally eject the complainant from her rented apartment, despite the fact that she is not owing rent. “The case was reported at the police station and the defendant was arrested,” the prosecutor told the court. Aaccording to him, the offences contravene Sections 168 and 350 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 350 prescribes two years jail term for wilful damage. However, following his plea of not guilty, the Magistrate, Mrs M.O. Tanimola, granted Mbagwu bail in the sum of N80, 000 with one surety in like sum. Tanimola said that the surety must be gainfully employed and must show evidence of two years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. Further hearing on the matter has been fixed for May 27. (NAN) 2 charged with threatening landlord over rent increment Spiritual cleansing: 2 prophets remanded for allegedly forcing house help to swallow iron cross Police arraign bizman over alleged N200, 000 fraud Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin