The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment initiated 13 reforms, some of which were ongoing as at the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s first term. Details of these reforms obtained from the ministry showed that they were reforms necessitated by the Federal Government’s development plans such as the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), the National Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP), and the speed of governance. To accelerate the NIRP, a project to develop Special Economic Zones to position Nigeria as the pre-eminent manufacturing hub in Sub-Saharan Africa and a major exporter of made in Nigeria goods and services regionally and globally, was initiated. Called Project MINE, (Made in Nigeria for Exports), it is to aid structural transformation of the Nigerian economy by increasing the manufacturing sector’s contribution to GDP to 20 per cent by 2025; contribute to sustainable inclusive growth by creating 1.5 million new direct manufacturing jobs in the initial phase; and to increase and diversify non-oil Foreign Exchange (FPREX) earnings to at least $30bn annually by 2025, by increasing manufacturing sector exports. In February, the Federal Government signed investment agreements with three Development Finance Institutions (DFIs); Afreximbank, Bank of Industry (BoI) and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) for the development of the project. The three DFIs are among the five to partner with Nigeria SEZ Investment Company Limited (NSEZCO) and the Ministry of Finance Incorporated. The other investment partners are Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) and African Development Bank (AfDB). Recently, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo condemned the recent misrepresentations that have been created about NSEZCO and regretted the embarrassment this might have caused the investors and reaffirmed FG’s endorsement of the strategies and plans put in place for the actualisation of the SEZs. He restated government’s commitment to Project MINE, a Presidential Priority Intervention project, using Special Economic Zones to achieve the objectives of boosting manufacturing’s share of GDP to 20 per cent, generating $30bn in annual export earnings and creating 1.5 million new jobs in the export-oriented manufacturing value chain. The Attorney General of the Federation, Mallam Abubakar Malami, who was at the meeting explained to the investors that the recent investigation into the affairs of the company was to establish the integrity of the Federal Government and the propriety of its actions in the light of the negative perceptions created in the media. He reiterated that the Federal Government had no intention to frustrate investment in the company and its smooth take-off. Other reforms embarked on by the ministry include those in Trade and Intellectual Property Registration. To ensure that trade policy agreements are effectively aligned with domestic regulations, laws and policy priorities that would lead to diversification of the economy, growth, modernization and job creation, the Federal Government established the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) in May, 2017. The Federal Government needed a dedicated office with technical ability and expertise that would engage in trade negotiations with nations and multilateral institutions like the WTO. NOTN coordinates and manages Nigeria’s trade policy, formulates Nigeria’s trade negotiating priorities, negotiates Nigeria’s trade agreements, as well as ensures domestic trade-related policy coherence. It is headed by a Nigerian diplomat, Ambassador Chiedu Osakwe, who had spent 19 years at the World Trade Organisation (WTO); 15 of those as a senior director at the WTO secretariat. Since its establishment, NOTN has made significant contributions to trade policy and negotiations in Nigeria and on the continent of Africa. NOTN is in the process of updating Nigeria’s Trade Policy which was last updated in 2002 and in September, 2018, it launched the process of preparing a 21st Century Trade Policy for Nigeria, tagged: “A Welfare and Prosperity Trade Agenda that Works for All.” This was necessitated by need to meet up with changes in domestic and international environments which has made it imperative to review the policy to reflect the current realities and emerging issues, specifically, trade and investment facilitation, electronic-commerce and digital economy and regional integration. Intellectual Property (IP) registration has been made faster and more transparent. With the IP reforms the backlog of applications for registration and issuance of certificates dating back to 2012 have been cleared and digitisation of the records of the registries has addressed the problems of missing files and inaccessible records. Also, for the first time in 51 years, since the Trademark Act came into force, the acting Registrar of Trademarks issued the annual report on the implementation of the Trademark Act and the compendium of all opposition rulings in the Registry of Trademarks has been published. How economic recovery plan expanded Nigeria’s trade, industrial sectors Nigeria recorded N15.69tn deficit in manufactured goods in 3yrs Presidency clarifies status of SEZ investment company Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin