Senator-elect for Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone, Malam Uba Sani has described the re-nomination of Mr. Godwin Emefiele as Central Bank Governor for a second term by President Muhammadu Buhari as a step in the right direction for the Nigerian economy. Sani who was an aide to former President Olusegun Obasanjo said genuine Nigerian patriots interested in the progress of Nigeria and the building of a vibrant and dynamic economy are delighted over the decision by the President. He said, “This bold and well thought through decision by Mr. President is highly commendable and must be fully supported by all and sundry as we reposition our economy to confront the monumental challenges facing our dear nation “I am particularly happy at this vote of confidence in Mr. Emefiele. That is one man I can fully attest to his integrity, forthrightness, competence, resourcefulness and innovativeness.” Sani said Emefiele has introduced many measures in a bid to strengthen the CBN and make it a truly world class apex financial institution saying critical and strategic thinking have gone into the formulation of Nigeria’s monetary policies under the CBN Governor. “He has also been able to reasonably steady the Naira against international currencies. The CBN has also initiated and executed projects in furtherance of its corporate social responsibility. Above all, Mr. Emefiele provided the needed leadership as we battled and eventually wriggled out of recession,” he stated. Sani said Emefiele’s achievements have also received commendations from the International Monetary (IMF), the World Bank and other international financial institutions. He said, “Banks and other key financial institutions in Nigeria have equally expressed confidence in Mr. Emefiele’s ability to take our economy to the Next Level. Mr. President indeed got it right.” Lawyers want Buhari to sack CBN governor Saraki reads Emefiele's reappointment letter We’ll be prudent in managing our loans – Adeosun Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin