Following the release of Zainab Habibu Aliyu, a Nigerian student arrested by Saudi authorities on drug allegation, the Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has called on the FGN to intervene on similar cases of innocent Nigerians arrested for alleged drug trafficking in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with a view to rescuing them from execution. In a communiqué issued at the end of its annual meetings including the central council and pre-Ramadan meeting as well as a national conference on Sunday in Kaduna and signed by the JNI Chairman, Conference Organising Committee and the Secretary-General, Professor S.  W.  Junaidu and Dr.  Khalid A.  Aliyu respectively, JNI pledged to continually work for the development, peace and stability of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. According to the communiqué, “The council calls for proper care of the IDPs and hopes that concerned and urgent attention would continue to be given to them by the government through programmes that would immediately alleviate their sufferings by addressing their challenges in a holistic manner involving all stakeholders, Muslim leaders and organizations. “The Central Council further implores the Federal Government to take all necessary steps to encourage the IDPs that are interested and capable of going back and getting rehabilitated in their respective villages and towns, and to come up with a more humane and functional approach to cater for and rehabilitate the minors, widows and orphans who have lost members of their families.” The council further charged all Emirate Councils, in collaboration with Muslim organizations to start the process of establishing Zakah and Waqf committees and ensure their effective administration saying,  “Muslim scholars should also embark on massive education and enlightenment of the Ummah on the objectives of Zakah and Waqf.” It added: “The government initiative on the Almajiri schools needs to be strengthened. In this regard, and in consideration of the effective structures maintained by the Muslim traditional institutions which are the custodians of Islam in Nigeria, the Council calls on the government to involve the Emirs in the proper management of the schools. “Government at all levels should intensify fight against all forms of drug and substance abuse. Muslim scholars, parents as well as the traditional institutions are also called upon to re-dedicate themselves to fight drug abuse in whatever forms; spiritually, materially and morally. Change must start with the fear of Allah (SWT) and our resolve as leaders, parents, scholars and elders is to be role models for the younger generation. “Government and its relevant agencies charged with safe guarding the lives and property of Nigerian citizens should brace up to the challenge of the menace of kidnappings, armed banditry, and other forms of social vices bedevilling the nation. “In this regards, the use of technology and intelligence gathering should be improved upon by those concerned and Nigerians are implored to give credible information regarding those perpetrating the heinous acts, as they don’t come from the sky. “The watchword should always remain synergy between those concerned, not rivalry; while efforts should continuously be made to secure the release of all those in the hands of ransom-seeking beasts.” It further urged Muslims particularly scholars to conduct this year’s Tafsir peacefully, amicably and in line with the agreed guidelines and to desist from making any inflammatory and abusive or derogatory statements directed to any groups or individuals. It further called on the well-to-do individuals among the Muslims, especially traders and businessmen/women dealing with essential commodities to take advantage of this blessed month by reducing prices and to use their wealth in feeding the poor and the needy and alleviating all hardships. The Council strongly condemned the lingering refusal of Hijab in some states of the South West despite a court ruling and calls on the Muslim brothers and sisters over there to continue to be steadfast until success is completely achieved. “The state governments should be made to understand that this is discriminatory and contrary to the laws of Nigeria which guarantee freedom of religion,” it added. Muslim groups hail FG on release of Zainab Aliyu, Ibrahim Abubakar Alleged drug trafficking: Why Zainab was freed  by Saudi authorities Christian group lauds Buhari over release of Zainab Aliyu from Saudi prison Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin