Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has described Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo state as a great achiever and a pride to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking at the commissioning of Imo International Exhibition in Owerri on Friday, Okorocha, Osinbajo said,that he “could testify of the great things the governor has done in the State”. He said that the number of projects in the State built by Governor Rochas Okorocha, is a testament that the governor worked for the interest of the state. He said, “I have gone round the state on several occasions to look at so many projects that the governor has done. As a matter of fact, on one occasion, we went to see one of the Universities that he had just completed. When I went round that University Complex, I realized that there is simply no other University that has the kind physical facilities like that University has, at least in the history of Nigeria. “So, I felt that it’s very important to recognize what His Excellency has done in these past 8 years. He is extremely commendable and I don’t know like many others, that have done the amount of work especially in infrastructure that he has done, Schools, hospitals etc. I’ve also commissioned hospital premises of the Airforce, the Police and others like them at 3 or 4 places. A lot of these projects like he said are not advertised or published in any way”. He added, “I’ve always found him very strange. I must say so because he’s otherwise someone who is not quiet but decided to keep quiet about his achievements. I’ve not been able to understand that because anybody who knows him will not say he’s a quiet man”. I wait to say that he has done extremely well in this past 8 years and sometimes his contemporaries will chose to make loud noise for very few they have achieved”. Okorocha in his speech, renamed the Imo International Exhibition Centre after Osinbajo, adding that local products would always be on display in the place even for export, while the four buildings inside the Complex represent the four market days in Igboland including Afor, Eke, Orie and Nkwo. Some of the projects Commissioned by the Vice President apart from the Exhibition Centre include, the Government House Clinic, the Ultra-modern Governor’s lodge, Odenigbo Guest House, first lady’s office complex, Sam Mbakwe road, Nnamdi Azikiwe road, Assumpta road, among others. What Nigerians think about Zuma’s N500m statue in Imo State How son in-law may succeed father in-law in Imo Who is Rochas Okorocha? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin