Some economic experts have been divided over the outcome of   the Monetary Policy committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), with some indicating that it will continue to implement an expansionary approach by cutting rates when it meets today through to tomorrow, the third of such meeting this year. In its last meeting on 25-26 March 2019, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), in contrast to the expectation of most analysts, decided to cut the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50 basis points (bps). The MPC members reached this decision after considering both the global and domestic economic. Satisfied that Nigeria had been able to achieve price and exchange rate stabilities, the MPC decided to stimulate growth by adopting an expansionary monetary policy. The committee cut the MPR to 13.50%; retained the asymmetric corridor of +200/-500 basis point around the MPR; retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) at 22.5%; and retained the liquidity ratio at 30%. Prof. Uche Uwaleke, Head, Banking and Finance Department, Nasarawa State University, Keffi and a professor of Finance and Capital Market,   said he sees prospects of further reduction in the MPR. “Lower MPR will free funds for investments or lending to firms for expansion, which will improve their earnings and deliver more value to investors. It has a way of attracting investors, opening the market and hedging risks’’, he said. Mr Ayodele Akinwumi, the head of research at FSDH research said: “However, before adopting that position, there may be a need to take a holistic approach to the subject. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) revised downwards its global economic growth forecast for 2019 and projected a decline in growth for 70% of the global economy.” He said the balance of risks remains tilted downwards. Major central banks, including the US Federal Reserve, have also given indications of a ‘patient’ approach to monetary policy. Hence, the MPC might similarly hold rates. He said: “There has been stability in the foreign exchange market. However, there was a significant drop in capital  importation via Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) in the Investors’ and Exporters’ Foreign Exchange Window (I&E window) in April 2019 compared with record highs in March 2019. This may be a reflection of the declining yield in the fixed income securities market. A further cut in rate could lead to lower yields, a  further cut could lead to capital flight in the economy and hamper economic performance. As a result, a hold  decision on the MPR seems more appropriate.” The MPC members may be inclined towards reducing policy rates, however, FSDH Research believes the short-term outlook of the global economy remains uncertain and may not sustain strong growth in crude oil prices. “Therefore, considering the current situation, a cautious approach to the conduct of monetary policy is appropriate. As a result, we expect that the MPC will adopt a ‘wait and see’ approach and hold the current rates at its 20-21 May 2019 meeting”, the research firm said. MPC: Experts expect CBN to keep rate unchanged CBN: Why MPC retained interest rate, others Why we can’t bring down interest rates now – CBN Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin