The screening session for the reappointment of Godwin Emefiele as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Wednesday turned to a prayer and well-wishing session of a sort. Some senators at the session prayed for the success of Emefiele’s second term as they expressed satisfaction with his performance in office. It was observed that rather than asking questions, some members and non-members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions engaged in wishing the CBN governor well. Emefiele took about 20 minutes to brief the committee on his stewardship in CBN from June, 2014 to date, noting that despite initial challenges, the apex bank under him has been able to stabilize the Nigerian economy. Soon after his submission, the chairman of the committee, Sen. Rafiu Ibrahim (PDP, Kwara), said he had no question and allowed other members of the committee to ask questions and make comments. He also announced the presence of some senators, who are not members of the panel, but said that they came “to show support” to the CBN governor. Speaking after the committee chairman, Sen Sam Anyanwu (PDP, Imo) said: “Like my chairman, I don’t have any question. All I can say is that I wish you well.” Also, Sen Philip Aruwa Gyunka (PDP, Nasarawa), said as someone who came from the banking sector, he was pleased with what Emefiele has done in the last five years. “I pray that you succeed in your second term because you’ve really done well,” Gyunka said. Similarly, Minority Whip Sen Philip Aduda (PDP, FCT), who is not a member of the committee, said he was at the session to ensure that the confirmation process of Emefiele was fast-tracked as the Senate attaches serious importance to the economy. He also said he was there to support the CBN governor. Also, Sen Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra) congratulated the CBN governor for what he has done at the apex bank. It was observed that Sen Peter Nwaboshi (PDP, Delta), who represents Emefiele’s senatorial district, openly lobbied his colleagues “not to throw missiles” at the CBN governor. Nwaboshi, who is not a member of the committee, said all his constituents were in support of Emefiele’s confirmation. Other senators present who were not members of the committee included Shehu Sani (PRP, Kaduna) and Eyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia), among others. A member of the House of Representatives from Delta State, Victor Nwokolo was also at the session. Our correspondent reports that Sen Umaru Kurfi (APC, Katsina), demanded to know what the CBN governor intended to do to boost more agricultural activities. While commending the CBN governor, Kurfi also asked what the apex bank was doing about the issue of exchange rate as Nigerians still complained that it was on the high side. It was observed that the session, which started at about noon, lasted for a little over an hour. Nomination of Emefiele good for Nigeria’s economy - Uba Sani Senate mandates committee to screen Emefiele BREAKING: Senate panel screens Emefiele Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin