Workers in Anambra State have called for a total scrap of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to stop monthly pension deductions from workers’ salaries. The Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Anambra State Chapter, Comr Jerry Nnubia, made a case for the cancellation of the scheme during the recent Workers’ Day commemorated in Awka. “Since 2014, when the contributory pension scheme was passed into law, the state government has continued to deduct the salaries of workers in the name of the scheme without remitting same and that of government counterpart contribution to the appropriate quarters,” he said. He demanded that payment of arrears of gratuity owed to pensioners who retired from local government service and from primary school from 2016 till date be made. The  Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, did not give any indication that the cancellation demand would be accepted. “We have cleared outstanding pensions that had accumulated for over 25 years, from the inception of our state,”  he said. This was not the first time state government workers would be asking for the cancellation of the contributory pension scheme in their state. For instance, two years ago, workers in Ebonyi State demanded the State Government to cancel the scheme and halt further deductions of pension contributions from workers’ salaries. The Ebonyi State Governor, Mr. David Umahi, heeded the demand and announced immediate suspension of the scheme in the state. In an interview with Daily Trust, Mr. Umahi said he suspended the scheme to please workers in the state. “The workers wanted it reviewed and honestly, I share the difficulties of workers. A worker, as little as they are being paid, is expected to pay 8 percent of the pension contribution and is also expected to pay 5 percent for the National Health Insurance Scheme. He will also probably pay for his house rent, transportation, and children’s school fees. So, he goes home with nothing,” the Governor said. These two incidents mirror the growing opposition of state government workers to the implementation of the contributory pension scheme in the state. Analysis of the data on the level of implementation of contributory pension scheme (CPS) has shown that many states are reluctant in the full implementation. Details sourced from the National Pension Commission (PenCom) showed that less than 10 states have complied substantially with the contributory scheme while many are still either at the level of domesticating the legal framework or are still unable to implement the law already in place. A total of 24 states of the Federation have enacted laws on the CPS. The enactment of these laws which are substantially in tandem with the provisions of the PRA 2014 is the first major step towards the domestication of the CPS at the sub-national level. In addition, six states have drafted CPS bills and are undergoing the legislative processes towards their passage into laws. On the other hand, three states have embarked on pension reform but chose not to adopt the CPS while one has elected to continue with the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). In a recent interview, the acting Director General of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), Aisha Umar-Dahir, said the Commission’s regulatory oversight of States and Local Governments pension schemes is guided by the provisions of the enabling laws in the States. Umar-Dahir said Section 23(h) of the PRA 2014 clearly emphasized that the Commission’s role with regards to the application of the CPS at the States and Local Governments levels shall be to promote and offer technical assistance to States in line with the objectives of the scheme. She said it would therefore be contrary to Constitutional provisions for the Commission to enforce the provisions of the PRA 2014 on the States without recourse to the extant laws and prevailing economic limitations of the States at every material point in time. “There is a positive correlation between performance of States under the Defined Benefits Scheme and the adoption of the CPS by States. Most States that were doing well in the payment of retirement benefits under the Defined Benefits Scheme were more favourably disposed to adopting the CPS and are doing better in its implementation than those who were not,” the PenCom boss said. Dr. Afolayan: Retirees deserve gratuity under Contributory Pension Scheme 26 states yet to start remitting workers’ pension - PenCom ‘New wage regime imperative to counter recession ‘