Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, the Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), says checking vote buying is a daunting task due to the large number of people involved in the act. Owasanoye stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in New York. According to him, vote buying is so rampant and widespread in the country that it was difficult to arrest and prosecute offenders. Besides, attempts to arrest vote buyers at polling units usually lead to clashes between armed thugs and security agents that endanger the lives of voters. He suggested that more attention should rather be given to prevention through deployment of technologies and improvement in the country’s voting infrastructure. “When something is rampant like this, you can hardly eradicate it by enforcement measures alone. “Take for example, a situation where a whole community, led by their leaders, reached an agreement to trade their votes. “People were led by opinion leaders to say we must be paid for our votes. Now, can you arrest an entire community? “Investigation and prosecution is very expensive, and the capacity to do all the available cases is severely limited. “It is not possible to prosecute all the cases that are staring you in the face. “So, you have to adopt preventive measures that help to diminish corruption much more vigorously than enforcement,” Owasanoye said. To this end, the ICPC boss said the commission held a policy dialogue after the last general elections to identify effective ways to eliminate the problem. One of the key recommendations at the forum, according to him, was the need to increase the role of technology in the voting process. (NAN) Lack of accountability discredits Nigeria’s elections — ICPC boss Lack of accountability discredits outcomes of elections – ICPC chairman Ekiti vote buying: We Can’t Arrest Suspects’, INEC tells SERAP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin