The Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has disclosed that Nigeria loses $1 billion dollar yearly to medical service source abroad by Nigerians. Ehanire said this on Thursday in Benin during the University of Benin Teaching Hospital’s 46th founder’s day and launching of an endowment fund for the hospital. ” About a year ago, it was estimated that Nigeria loses about $1billion every year to medical service sourced abroad. The figure is probably higher now. The medical tourism is a declaration of no confidence in our health system, which we must endeavour to address,” He challenged the nation’s health institutions to aim higher as the Indians hospitals are currently doing now, nothing that some of the hospitals patronized by Nigerians in abroad, especially, in a certain Asia country are not as equipped or well staffed as the nation Teaching hospital. Also speaking, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomole, lamented that the nation’s healthcare system is bedevilled with serious challenges leading improper diagnosis which some times lead to patients death in some cases. ” We must put regulations in place to ensure that health personnel are allowed to treat patients in areas where they are competent or specialised. The generalised system of medical review in the country, I think it is something that need to be revisited for better performance,” he said. According to him,”when we have the right policy frame work in place, right level of compensation when people are paid according to contribution whole reward and efforts are adequately compensated, I believe Nigeria abroad will come home knowing fully well that their effort will be rewarded. He however commended the management of the UBTH for putting up a system where accident victims and poor people are attended to even when they do have money to deposit. In his speech, former military Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, Said the achievements and performance of UBTH have justified the vision behind the setting up of the Hospital. “The Teaching Hospital over the years has turned out to become a conglomerate training institution for a wide variety of healthcare professions from the basic to the highest levels of specialisation in various fields. “The Endowment Fund being launched today becomes so relevant as it is a worthy endeavour geared towards upgrading the institution and health services in the state and country to a level capable of helping reversing the burden of Medical tourism.”Gowon said. Why Nigeria loses $1bn on medical tourism – Minister Nizamiye Hospital aims to discourage medical tourism How Nigerians spend billions on medical tourism Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin