Residents of Ajegunle/Araromi, a community along Lagos-Ibadan expressway, yesterday expressed frustration over alleged demolition of their houses and acquisition of the land by Ogun State Government, saying many of them have rendered homeless. The aggrieved residents, comprising able men, old women and some school pupils, protested in the community on Wednesday, carried placards with various inscriptions to drive home their demands. Some of the inscription reads: “President Buhari, our lives are in danger, please save us,” “Governor Amosun: Enough is enough”, “Prince Dapo Abiodun, Please restore our hope”, “Prince Dapo Abiodun, Please wipe our tears” among others. Speaking with newsmen, the spokesman of the protesters, Kayode Araoye, said a number of the residents now reside in shanties and make-shift houses as a means of survival following the demolition. According to him, the embattled community is 200 years-old and all the occupants are legal occupants. Araoye appealed to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, to “temper justice with mercy” by allowing residents to continue to enjoy their residency on the land peacefully. He equally called on the Governor-Elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, to make do his promise to resolve all land matters upon assumption of office on May 29. “We have been on this issue for the past seven years. We don’t know what Governor Ibikunle Amosun is looking for in this environment. The government has taken over 500 hectares of land from us. The government should please leave the remaining ones for us to exist. The government cannot chase us into extinction because, we reside along the expressway. We have other communities on the expressway like Mowe, Ibafo, Arepo, Warewa among others. “The government cannot displace us. We have nowhere to go. They have demolished our properties. Look around, our people now live in shanties and make-shift houses with their children. The government has rendered majority of us homeless.  We know he (Amosun) is still the governor of Ogun State; he should temper justice with mercy. We also appeal to the Governor-elect, Dapo Abiodun, to please resolve land issues as soon as he is swore in on May 29. We have been rendered homeless. Our hope is in him and God,” Araoye said.    Demolition: Mosafejo residents urge Lagos Assembly to intervene 'APC will win governorship poll without Governor Amosun' 2019: Arewa Community promises Buhari, Abiodun 300,000 votes in Ogun Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin