Governor Umaru Almakura of Nasarawa state has dissolved his state executive council. He did this in the presence of the Governor-Elect and Deputy Governor-Elect at an expanded executive council meeting and all political appointees  at the Council Chamber of the Government House in Lafia. He said “With this directive, Commissioners and Members of the Executive Council are hereby directed to submit their handover note to him on Monday 20th May 2019 and to vacate their offices between 10 and 11 am on May 29th, 2019.” He thanked them all for the parts they played in his administrations successes, stating that without each of them it would not have been the same , describing them as the people that made it happen , appreciating their value as a team to salvage Nasarawa state as well as bringing on an accomplished technocrat and a global citizen. Governor Almakura stated that as the administration bow out to take its exit in two weeks, one will find out that the government discharged its responsibilities credibly and also we are very comfortable and happy that the transition is to one of us who believes in the vision to take Nasarawa to the glory land. He further announced that as the Commissioners were to submit their handing over note on Monday 20th, however, stated with heavy heart, he announced the dissolution of all other political appointees which include Special Advisers, Senior Special Assistants, Special Assistants and Personal Assistants except for those occupying critical offices. Speaking at the meeting the Governor-Elect, said, “I felt so honoured that my deputy and I were allowed to be part of the meeting and even given the chance to say something. In his vote of thanks, David Ayewa on behalf of all appointees thanked the Governor for the chance to serve to serve the state. One of the highlights of the meeting was the presentation of a gift to Governor Almakura from the Personal Assistants led by Mr. Azige Louis Machue who assured the Governor of their support and confidence. Moving tide against Doma’s ambition Nasarawa to pay prisoners’ fines Gov. Almakura and the bailout issue Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin