A former governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa, has noted that Nigeria’s economy is gradually crumbling with devastating effects on the wellbeing of the citizenry due to rising insecurity in the country. He said seeing the solution as a collective effort rather than security or government business  would bring a quick and lasting solution to the crisis. He was speaking yesterday in Abuja while unveiling the Attahiru Bafarawa Foundation’s proposed “National Security and Peace Development Summit” slated for Kaduna State after the Ramadan fast. He lamented that the unending terrorist attacks in the Northeast, persistent banditry with violent kidnapping and killings in the Northwest and other parts of the country have not only destroyed socio-economic infrastructure, but also made the regions undesirable destinations to investors. Bafarawa,  a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said the choice of Kaduna was due to the central nature of the state and also being controlled by the APC being another party. This according to him is to ensure that the coming summit achieves its aim and not linked to section or politics. He said weakened governance structures in the country, apart from affecting economic growth,  had also undermined the rule of law and the potential for human development. “The security situation, ineffective security governance and social development arrangements undermine Nigeria’s ability to establish and maintain a viable economy that can sustain acceptable levels of well-being for majority of its citizens particularly the young and vulnerable. Weakened governance structures further undermine the rule of law and the potential for human development,” Bafarawa said. While noting that security agencies had done fairly well tackling insecurity, he said the security apparatus in the country needs to be repositioned for more effective policing of the public space. How insecurity is destroying Nigeria’s economy — Bafarawa 2019: Bafarawa congratulates Atiku, promises to work for his victory Insecurity has nothing to do with politics — Bafarawa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin