The Nigerian Army has said it did not neglect Lance Corporal Ochefu Emmanuel, seen in a viral video appealing for funds to treat a medical condition. The Nigerian Army spokesman, Colonel Sagir Musa in a statement on Saturday said the attention of the Nigerian Army is drawn to a video clip produced and disseminated by “Help This Life In Need Foundation”, a Non-governmental organization in which a soldier of the Nigerian Army, 13NA/70/3343 Lance Corporal Ochefu Emmanuel was appealing for help to fund his medical evacuation for kidney transplant. He said it is unimaginable to allege that a soldier having medical problems would be abandoned by the Army as the video clip wants to portray. He said It is not true that there was a medical board for financial help. The Nigerian Army has clearly established medical care and evacuation procedure which is being adhered to. He said, “For the benefit of doubt, the soldier in question was treated in 2018 at 3 different Nigerian Army medical facilities. It was confirmed that he had chronic kidney disease with renal failure. Both of his kidneys had failed and he became dependent on dialysis.  “Consequently, he had 20 sessions of dialysis at N50,000 per session paid for by the Nigerian Army. He added, “Our medical experts have also confirmed that his definitive treatment is renal transplant. This was made known to him and properly counselled for, while arrangements for the transplant are being made. However, Musa said his situation is further compounded because of lack of donor. Nonetheless, efforts are on going for his evacuation and treatment. He noted that although he has also been diagnosed with retroviral situation, with a high chance of rejection if the transplant is done, we are unrelenting in ensuring that he is properly treated as machineries for a transplant have been put in motion, while search for donor is also ongoing. He also warned the Non-governmental organization that facilitated the recording and dissemination of the video clip to desist from spreading falsehood without contacting the Nigerian Army authorities. He told the Non-governmental organization to desist from taking undue advantage of medical conditions of service personnel such as Ochefu Emmanuel to make money or defraud unsuspecting members of the public. Army promotes 6,199 soldiers fighting B/Haram Operation Lafiya Dole:  Buratai grants special promotion to 6,199 soldiers Don’t blame Buratai, army for involvement in elections – Bayelsa Dep. Gov Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin