The controversy surrounding crisis in the Imo state House of Assembly took a dramatic turn on Thursday with the resignation of the deputy speaker, Ugonna Ozurigbo. Ozurigbo’s resignation came less than 24 hours after 21 out of the 27-member state legislature served impeachment notices on the Speaker, Acho Ihim and the Majority Leader, Lugard Osuji, after suspending them. Ozurigbo, who won election to represent Nkwerre/Nwangele/Njaba/Isu federal constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is representing Nwangele state constituency in the House under the same platform. The resignation letter, sighted by our correspondent in Owerri on Thursday morning was dated May 15, but was received by the office of the Clerk of the state’s House of Assembly on May 16. The letter, which he personally signed, was addressed to the Speaker and members. Ozurigbo told his colleagues that he was resigning to enable him take over his new responsibility as a member-elect of the House of Representatives. The statement reads: “As you already know, I have been sent to another four years mission by my federal constituency, nay Imo state, at the federal House of Representatives, Abuja. “This new task has come with its own challenges and expectations, especially the need to play key roles in the formation of the National Assembly leadership, and time to strategically position, to pursue the greater interests of Imo state, South East and Nigeria, at the federal legislature. Currently, these will make my availability in Imo state irregular.” “Hence, I seek your undertaking as I either save the office of Imo state Deputy Speaker by resigning or allow my new engagements to suffer the office of Imo state Deputy Speaker by holding same tenaciously. “Thus, for your efficiency and good of Imo people, I hereby resign as the Rt Hon. Deputy Speaker of Imo state House of Assembly (8th House), effective from the date written above.” Ozurigbo was not available for official comments, when our reporter reached out to him via his mobile phone. Kaduna Assembly declares defectors'' seat vacant Uneasy calm in Benue Assembly Reps: How speakers emerged since 1999 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin