Force Headquarters has said it has uncovered plans to attack oil installations across the country. It said some subversive elements masquerading as climate and environmental activists are the masterminds of the plot. It said they are to commence “massive and coordinated attacks” especially in the Niger-Delta region and adjoining States. Force spokesman, Deputy Commissioner of Police Frank Mba, said this in a statement in Abuja yesterday. “These plots which are politically motivated, are aimed at sabotaging oil installations with intended negative consequences on national security, economic development and global oil market,” he said. He added: “Consequently, the acting  Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, has ordered commissioners of police nationwide, and particularly in designated states to intensify their surveillance missions around oil facilities and other critical national infrastructure.” He said the commissioners of police and other field commanders have also been directed to put in place proactive measures aimed at neutralizing these subversive threats and bringing the plotters to book. Mba said the IGP warned of dire consequences for persons or group of persons who may want to resort to the use of violence or threat of violence, in advancing their political or economic goals. He also said the IGP has urged citizens to remain vigilant, report all suspicious characters and plots to the law enforcement agents. He added that the IGP reaffirms his commitment to ensuring the adequate security of lives, the protection of national assets and the sanctity of political freedom and democracy. Security Alert: Police uncover plans to attack Abuja Transport service Shell attack: Militants demand VP’s Presidency Police uncover plot to attack Benue bank Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin