The Executive Director, Project One Production, Mrs. Bisayo Busari-Akinnadeju, has urged Nigerians to shun illegal migration and divisive campaigns in order to save the youths and earn the respect of the world. She made the plea  in Abuja at the inauguration of the ‘baby pack’ of a three-day conference themed “Beaming the light on the Nigerian child”. She said that Africa and the rest of the world will not respect Nigeria and Nigerians until its people began to do things the right way. “Nigeria must earn its respect. We must imbibe greatness as our culture. The black people of the world need Nigeria to be great as a source of pride and confidence by shunning illegal migration, social and cyber crimes and all other vice that dent the nation’s image’’, she said. She urged leaders, especially politicians at all spheres to imbibe the spirit of loyalty, commitment, dedication and patriotism in their followers by setting the pace in which their followers could follow. According to her, there could be no keener revelation of a society’s soul than the way in which it leaders treats its followers, especially children and youths. She said, “We strongly believe that if our leaders are walking on the right path, our children and youths who are the future of Nigeria would follow suit. The Nigerian child and youth carry our dreams, hopes, and desires of the future as a Nation and as such we must do things right so they can emulate.” She urged parents, guidance, religious leaders, and traditional heads to pay attention to the children and youths to ensure that they were well prepared to take up leadership roles in the future. Slavery auction: Senate urges FG to summon Libyan Ambassador to Nigeria 540 Nigerians to be deported from Libya Aug. 10 – NAPTIP ‘Pray for peace  in Nigeria’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin