The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) has concluded the verification exercise for pensioners from the Civil Service Pension Department (CSPD) and the Police Pension Department (PPD). It also announced the commencement of the second phase of the Parastatals Pensioners’ Verification Exercise. The Executive Secretary of PTAD, Sharon Ikeazor, confirmed the development to journalists on Wednesday in Port Harcourt during an interactive session with pensioners. The interaction marked the flag-off of the second phase of verification exercise for Parastatals’ Pensioners for South-South Zone under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). The parastatals pensioners’ verification exercise is for pensioners and next of kin of all federally funded parastatals, agencies and institutions under the DBS in the South South Zone. The exercise covers retirees in no fewer than 270 agencies, including federal universities, polytechnics, Colleges of Educations, Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres. Retirees from Power Holding Company of Nigeria, Nigeria Railway Corporation, Nigeria Postal Services were also covered in the second phase of the exercise. Similarly, research institutes and other treasury funded parastatal agencies and institutes as well as retirees of the defunct or privatised agencies yet to be privatised would be covered. They include the Aluminium Smelter Company of Nigeria, Nigeria Aviation Handling Company, Assurance Bank and Nigeria National Shipping Line. The exercise, which began on May 20 and expected to be rounded off on June 1, would cover Benin City, Port Harcourt, Uyo and Calabar centres. “We have concluded the Civil Service Pension Department and the Police Pension Department. We have also concluded verification exercise for the Nigerian Immigration Service and the Nigerian Prison Service. Now, we are doing Parastatals’ Pension department,’ Ikeazor said. ’ FG to verify 104133 pensioners of 270 parastatals PTAD vows to fight corruption in old pension scheme FG commences verification of pensioners in North-East Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin