Managing Director of Med-View Airline PLC, Alhaji Muneer Bankole on Wednesday has promised the airline’s shareholders, service providers and travel partners of better deals and value for their investments. Alhaji Bankole also said the airline had begun preparation for the smooth airlift of 2019 Hajj pilgrims, disclosing that it would build on its experiences in the previous years. Med-View Airline has once again come atop as one of the three carriers the Federal Government appointed for the airlift of Muslims for the 2019 HAJJ. A statement by the airline quoted the MD as assuring all stakeholders of a hitch-free Hajj operation. The choice of Medview Airline is rooted in existing strategic partnership with National Hajj Commission (NAHCON). Med-View Airline has also assisted NAHCON in the past to airlift stranded pilgrims in the holy land over the years. Bankole said the management of Medview Airline is fully aware of the operational challenges confronting the aviation industry in Nigeria, saying that no carrier is insulated from the hardship bedeviling the whole nation. He said the airline was repositioning for better performance amidst the current challenges which he described as “daunting”. The CEO said the airline was undergoing a re-fleeting programme, and some of the aircraft that were sent for scheduled maintenance will soon arrive to increase its capacity. He said discussions were ongoing with strategic partners to pull resources together towards operational enhancement and capacity building. Hajj airlift: Disquiet over 50% allocation to Saudi airlines Hajj: Med-View partners tour operators, first carrier to complete airlift Hajj: Med-view to complete return trips of 17,000 pilgrims in 2 weeks Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin