No fewer than 50 newly elected members of the House of Representatives and Governor-Elect of Yobe state, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni on Thursday attended the Ramadan lecture organised by the member elected for Iseyin/Kajola/Itesiwaju and Iwajowa constituency, Mr. Shina Peller. Peller also used the avenue to commission his multi-million Naira constituency office in Iseyin. The 2nd Shina Ayo annual Ramadan lecture tagged: ‘Uniting for the right purpose’ delivered by Sheikh Sulaimon Farooq Onikijipa, was attended by the traditional rulers in Oke-Ogun under the chairmanship of Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Abdulganiy Adekunle Salaudeen. The incoming Governor of Yobe state described the office commissioning as a watershed event, especially when the ninth National Assembly when he (Shina) would be officially inaugurated, alongside others, was yet to take-off. Buni who doubles as the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress said, “We are happy to be part of this historic occasion. Shina Ayo Peller has shown that he will be a good representative when the house takes off in June. I am happy for the people of this area that you are indeed blessed with his electoral victory.” Some of the Rep members from Kano, Plateau, Yobe, Kaduna, Ondo, and Oyo states who spoke at the event described Peller as “a man imbued with milk of human kindness ready to deliver dividends of democracy to his people”. In his speech, Peller lauded the constituents for voting him in, just as he reassured them that “we shall all work together to make our constituency a model one, and it will be a reference point for others to emulate”. He solicited the support of his people to conquer many challenges confronting the constituency, and vowed to provide the needed solutions that will bring about a desired change to the area. While emphasising support for the elderly from age 70 and above with stipends and healthcare monitoring and management, Peller said many more projects would be added to those he earlier donated like the 16 boreholes; construction of a Science Laboratory and Modern Library to Ansarudeen Grammar School, Iseyin and the donation of a fully equipped modern female hostel to the National Youth Service Corp in Oyo State which was commissioned few weeks ago. Hot race for APC National Secretary as Buni becomes Yobe governor - elect Why Yobe recorded rancour-free polls – Gov elect Buni Yobe APC Primaries: Bomoi opens campaign office to slug it out with Buni Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin