The creation of additional emirates in Kano State on Wednesday may not be the last turbulence coming the way of the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II, as an ongoing probe by the state government’s anti-corruption agency could lead to charges being filed against the monarch, Daily Trust on Sunday has gathered. Sanusi’s status as the only first class emir in the state was whittled when the state government balkanized the emirate, carving out four new emirates and appointing first class emirs to rule them. The exercise which lasted only two days, fuelled speculations that the government was going after the emir over his rumoured support for the opposition during the recently concluded governorship election. The fresh investigation by the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission as well as the bid to appoint new first class emirs by the state assembly kick-started almost simultaneously last week. A source in the commission, who craved for anonymity, yesterday informed our correspondent that the ongoing probe on by the commission was targeting the emir, noting that “It will reach to a point where the commission will transfer the case to court for the emir to defend himself. After our findings, whoever is found wanting in misappropriating the public funds will be dragged before the court.” A government source yesterday disclosed that Emir Sanusi, after sensing trouble at the turn of events between the state government and the palace lately, sent business tycoon, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, to beg the governor to have a change of mind. “I can confidently tell you that when the probe was renewed and the move for creation of four new emirates in the state started, the emir sent the renowned business mogul, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, to Ganduje to plead with him to stop the two moves. “However, Ganduje in his response told Dangote to go back and tell the emir that he should choose from three alternatives: To resign on his own or be removed from office or the government will create additional emirates in the state. “Ganduje assured Dangote that one of the three options must be implemented by government since the emir will not stop playing partisan politics against him. If not for the quick intervention by Dangote, Ganduje would have dethroned the emir,” the source revealed. However, the source added that even though the governor has spared the emir being removed from office, there is likelihood that after the turbaning ceremony of the four new emirs, Ganduje will transfer the emir to another emirate and replace him with one of the newly appointed emirs. More troubles for Emir Sanusi Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano Those New Emirates in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin