The Connected Development (CODE) has said it tracked an estimated N1.28billion ($3.6m) budgeted for projects in 69 grassroots communities across water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), primary healthcare and education sectors. The Chief Executive of CODE, Mr. Hamzat B. Lawal, said this Monday in Abuja at the presentation of the organisation’s 2018 Annual Report, titled “Amplifying Voices from the Grassroots”. He however told Daily Trust that most of the projects have reached 80 percent completion and all the projects reached at least 70 percent completion on average. According to him, 2018 was a year of resilience and remarkable achievement as their priority, for that year, was to track subnational budgets and ensure that Federal allocations to states and local governments reached grassroots communities for socio-economic development. “CODE’s ‘Follow The Money’ project, in tracking an estimate of N1,289,579,737 ($3.6m) budgeted for projects in 69 grassroots communities across water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), primary healthcare and education sectors, in the year 2018,” Lawal said. In the 35-page report, CODE emphasized its effort to spur stronger and inclusive growth for grassroots communities in Africa by providing them with the resources to amplify their voices, creating platforms for dialogue, enabling informed debate, and building the capacity of citizens on how to hold their elected representatives accountable through the Follow The Money initiative. He said, “CODE activated Follow The Money for nine local government projects and 41 state government projects championing five advocacy campaigns for improved first-mile health infrastructure and services, 60 advocacy campaigns for improved education infrastructures for children to learn in schools, and six advocacy campaigns for communities to access safe, clean water and we impacted 1,292,848 grassroots people in 21 states of Nigeria.”  World Bank approves 62 projects for Kogi communities Nigeria’s ‘Follow The Money’ wins 2019 UN SDG Global Award 2nd anniversary: Akeredolu tours Ondo, promises to create LCDAs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin