President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said he will not let Nigerians down in providing effective and result-oriented leadership that safeguards and ensures a better life for citizens. Speaking after attending the daily Ramadan Tafsir at the State House Mosque, he said he is conscious of the weight of responsibility on his shoulders. Buhari said the reality of his office weighs heavily on his mind at all times, and he will keep working to deliver an improved life to Nigerians, adding that he knows what to do, and will not fail Nigerians. Buhari thanked all Nigerians for the opportunity to serve a second term in office. He said their expectations for giving him the mandate will be met. “The expectations of Nigerians will be met. I will not let them down. I will continue to do my best,” he said. The President reiterated his earlier message on the occasion of Ramadan to Nigerians that discipline should be the watch word of every citizen. He advised citizens to use the fasting period to reflect and be more constructive in purpose by promoting harmony. He said the fasting period also provides opportunity for charity. In his remarks, Chief Imam of the mosque, Sheik Abdulwaheed Sulaiman called for repentance and prayers to avert the current security challenges confronting the nation. Receives briefing from security chiefs Meanwhile, the president yesterday received briefing from the country’s security chiefs at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Members of the security council are; Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Abubakar Sadique. Others are, the  Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno; Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan- Ali, Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar, acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and the  Director General of Department for State Service (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi.  President Buhari promises to provide effective, results-oriented leadership EFCC arrests Atiku’s finance director What Buhari needs to do first for Nigerians - Waku Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin