Three commercial motorcycle riders have been allegedly killed by people suspected to be motorcycle thieves within one week in Gwagwalada Area Council. Our reporter learnt that the incidents happened at different locations, though the mode of operation was the same as the assailants used  hard objects to hit  their victims on the head and escape with their motorcycles. A resident of Phase 1, Gwagwalada, Adamu Haliru, said one particular incident happened at about 10:13 pm on Thursday last week, when the suspected motorcycle snatchers used a hammer to hit the cyclist on the head and escape with the his motorcycle. He said the corpse of the deceased whose identity could not be ascertained was discovered the next day by some passersby in the area, saying the police were immediately informed about the incident. He further said the second incident happened along Paso-Dobi road,  when two of  men who pretended to be passengers attacked a cyclist and dumped his body inside the  bush by the road side and fled with his motorcycle. Francis Ebuka, a commercial cyclist, also confirmed another attack, which he said occurred on Sunday, at Chukuku village. He said the cyclist was killed and his motorcycle was taken away. “In fact, just within the past one week, three Okada riders were killed by motorcycle snatchers after which they escaped with their motorcycles. And that is why any motorcycle thief that is caught, mob always set them ablaze, “ he said. Reacting, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Mustapha Adamu, said the council was also worried over incessant attacks on commercial cyclists in the area, saying the council had held meeting with the executive of the motorcycle union in the area. He noted that the killings of motorcyclists had become worrisome, even as he said it was the responsibility of government to protect lives and property of  its citizen The chairman called on the motorcycle riders in the area to always report any unusual movement of person or persons to the nearest security agents. When contacted, the FCT police command spokesman, ASP Danjuma Tanimu Gajere, said the command only received the report of only one cyclist who was killed and his motorcycle taken away.  Motorcyclist stabbed to death in Abuja village Suspected motorcycle snatchers attack farmer at Giri village Man, 32, robbed of motorcycle at gunpoint in Gwagwalada Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin