The Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Zone 2, Command, Onikan, Lawal Shehu, has ordered a thorough investigation into the release from custody of a suspect, one Ikechukwu Paul Odogwu, who was accused of obtaining by false pretense the sum of N15 million from one Callistus Chidozie Okafor under the guise of purchasing land for him at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. It was learnt the suspect was arrested based on a petition to the office of AIG Zone 2 but was allowed to go following an order from above. It was learnt that the AIG who was not privy to the directive ordered a fresh Investigation to the controversial release from custody. Odogwu, according to the police, is a business man at the popular International Trade Fair market along Badagry Expressway in Lagos. The police said the complainant alleged that rather than the use the money for the purpose for which it was meant for diverted it to his personal use and ended up presenting fake land documents for the purported purchase. The complainant stated in an earlier petition sent to the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 2 that the suspect convinced him that the land was situated within Lugbe 1, Extension Layout, Abuja Municipal Area council and later presented him with some document. However, according to the complainant, when he got to Abuja to confirm the authenticity of the documents, he was allegedly told that the documents were fake and all efforts he made to recover his money from the businessman ten years after have failed. Police said that investigation carried out at the Federal Capital Territory Administration Department of land, plots No MF 8034 and CP 8047 Lugbe 1 Extentsion layout revealed that the said land was not listed on the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) land register. Consequence upon the discovery, the police said that the suspect was arrested for allegedly refusing to honour police invitation. He was charged with offences bothering on conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretence, stealing and forgery. However, in his defence, Ikechukwu Paul  Odogwu, said he is also a victim the entire land deal.  Police foil attempt to attack ships, arrest two SARS operative in police net over extortion, torture Security guard, 4 others arrested over exhuming of corpse Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin