Although he was believed to have been initially disposed to signing it into law as ‘parting gift’ for his political allies in the state assembly, Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State eventually bowed to pressure from critics by declining assent to the Life Pension bill earlier passed by the state lawmakers. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that the angered lawmakers are now poised for a showdown with the governor for declining assent to the bill.  The aborted bill passed by the Bayelsa State assembly, which was sponsored by the leader of the house, Pastor Peter Akpe, provided that former Speakers would earn N500,000 each per month, while each Deputy Speakers and members would earn N200,000 and N100,000, respectively, as their monthly pension. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that the lawmakers who are said to be angered by the governor’s decision to decline assent to the bill maybe working to frustrate most of the governor’s request to the parliament. During the May Day celebration last Wednesday, it was only very few members of the Assembly that attended the event, mostly the returning lawmakers, even when Governor Dickson was physically present. Speaker Konbowei Benson, House Leader, Pastor Peter Akpe, who sponsored the bill and several other lawmakers were conspicuously absent, suggesting that all may not be well with the governor and the state lawmakers at the moment. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that there are some discreet moves by the lawmakers to override the governor and pass the bill into law. It was also gathered that they are planning for a sitting outside the assembly premises, once they are able to smuggle out the mace Governor Seriake Dickson, who was said to have been initially disposed to signing the bill into law as part of his parting gift to his political allies in the house of Assembly, had to bow to the pressure of the masses by declining assent to the obnoxious bill. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, quoted Governor Dickson as saying that the bill is inconsistent with section 124 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, adding that the state assembly lacks the powers to expand the categories of public servants who should be entitled to pension. The Speaker of the House of Assembly, Kenbowei Benson, who just lost a re-election bid to the House of Representatives, was said to be looking forward to the bill as his lifeline after his tenure. Same applied for the House Leader, Pastor Peter Akpe, who sponsored the bill and who also lost out during the last PDP primaries to return to the state assembly for the fourth term. It was gathered that the bill was hurriedly passed within three hours at the state house of assembly, during an emergency sitting different from their normal sitting days of Tuesdays and Thursdays. Even the public hearing which is always held before any bill is considered for passage was not conducted, to avoid public interference before passage. Before Governor Dickson declined assent, several groups were mobilizing for peaceful protest if he dared to append his signature to the bill.  The youths, elders, women, civil rights activists and the people of the state all rose in unison to condemn the motive of the lawmakers behind the bill. Dickson, who later bowed to pressure, had faced heavy criticisms by some concerned non-partisan groups in the state under the aegis of Embasara Foundation who urged him to be on the side of the people by declining assent to the life pension bill. The concerned groups, mostly civil liberty organization, such as Ijaw Professionals Association (IPA), Environmental Rights Action (ERA), Civil Liberties Organization (CLO), Ijaw Elders Forum (IEF), Ijaw Nation Forum (INF), Ijaw Women Connect (IWC), Concerned Bayelsa Youths (CBY) and Bayelsa State Founding Fathers Forum (BSFFF) threatened to take proactive actions to register disapproval for the bill. Dr Ayakeme Whisky, Chairman, media committee of Embasara foundation, said that the assembly members passed the bill without conducting public hearing to get the input or acceptance of the people, as is customary in a legislative house. “Under Nigeria’s constitution, pensions are the exclusive preserve of civil servants, not political office holders. “The failure of the house to hold a public hearing on the bill, a failure that is now a sad habit in the state’s peculiar practice of legislation, suggests that the members who sponsored and supported this bill were driven by base motives. “The ballooning effect of the pension bill will deal a heavy blow to the state’s capacity to meet its infrastructural development needs. The implication is that more communities have to give up their aspirations for clean water, rural roads, schools and health care for a few political officers to be insured for life at the people’s expense”, he said. The opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) described the bill and the motive of the lawmakers as self-serving, saying that the idea of life pension for lawmakers is strange to governance of the state. The state publicity secretary of APC, Doifie Buokoribo, said: “It is unsympathetic for members of the House of Assembly to seek to enhance their own lives at the expense of the vast majority of Bayelsa people living in pain and penury, the bill as an unspeakable crime against our people. “APC as a party, we have been at the forefront of efforts to enthrone a regime of better life for the people of Bayelsa State. And we have led a robust opposition to the current system of anti-people governance in the state for close to eight years. Describing the idea behind the bill as avaricious, wicked, and insensitive, Buokoribo said the lawmakers merely portrayed themselves as a people who feel no concern for the feelings of their suffering constituents. “They have once again confirmed that they are in cahoots with the executive in the serial impoverishment of the people of Bayelsa State”, he said. Bayelsans woke up last week to hear about the passage of the obnoxious life pension bill for formers lawmakers. The bill, if it was given executive assent, would have provided pension for the Bayelsa legislators who served in the state House of Assembly. But there was a huge outcry as several groups, civil rights activists and the general public rose up against the law. The idea for life pension sparked serious protests and condemnation in the state, as virtually every citizen of the state moved against the idea, describing the lawmakers’ action as a greedy attempt to milk the state dry. The masses wondered why the lawmakers would enjoy life pension, while several civil servants who have spent 35 years of their lives working for the state are finding it difficult getting their entitlements. Before the consideration of the life pension for former lawmakers in the state, former governors and deputies were already enjoying the pension and other several benefits, including houses, cars and wardrobe allowances as provided in the Bayelsa State Pensions for Governors and Deputy Governors law 2003. The law made provisions for governors and deputy governors’ pension only, but Sunday Trust gathered that the members of the assembly under the leadership of the Speaker, Konbowei Benson had to repeal the law and made provisions for the former Speakers, Deputy Speakers and the members of the assembly, including those who served in the old Rivers State House of Assembly. According to section 10 of the repealed law, “This law repeals the Bayelsa Pension for Governors and Deputy Governors law” which made provision for monthly allowance valued at 8 percent of his annual basic salary, wardrobe 50 percent, entertainment 40 percent, transport allowance 50 percent and utilities 80 percent of their annual basic salary. The law also made provision for seven bedroom duplex and a three room boys quarters in any location of choice in the state for the governor, while the Deputy Governor is entitled with one residential five bedroom duplex and a two room boys quarters in any location within the state, and several other benefits including cars, domestic staff, medical assistance and more. The Assembly members who felt cheated that only Governor and Deputy Governors would be enjoying all these benefits, even when they were all elected on the four years term or eight years for two terms, deemed it necessary to include their own interest. Bayelsa: Dickson declines assent to lawmakers’ life pension bill BREAKING: Governor Dickson declines assent to lawmakers life pension bill APC kicks as Bayelsa assembly approves life pension for members Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin