The Minister of State (Aviation), Sen. Hadi Sirika on Wednesday commissioned several projects at various airports across the country. The minister kicked off the event at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja as he commissioned the 10mw independent power production plant to power the Abuja local and international airport terminal facilities, the accident rescue centre for emergencies, fire watch tower at general aviation terminal Abuja and newly renovated terminal D at the local wind of the Abuja airport as well. The minister also commissioned the NiMet regional office at the Kano international airport. Also commissioned at the Kano airport is the regional office of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the General Aviation Terminal (GAT). Also commissioned is the terminal building, the Meteorology Institute and Met Enclosure at the Katsina airport. Speaking during the commissioning of the power plant, the minister said the power plant is a direct response to the identified deficiencies at the newly commissioned new international terminal. Daily Trust reports that the new international terminal at the Abuja airport commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari in December 2018 had several defects in the design. The defect included inadequate power facilities to power the new facility. But with the inauguration of the new plant, inadequate power issues at the facility and indeed the Abuja airport has been resolved. The Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Rabiu Yadudu, said the expansion of the airport and the completion of the new international terminal came with the new demand for additional power supply. Yadudu said the power plant had commensurate capacity to power the airport facilities. “In the light of the very low power capacity in the country, FAAN decided to provide this 10 megawatt IPP facility to meet up with the power supply that is needed in this airport. “This appropriately aligned with the federal government’s plan in decentralising power supply aimed at attracting private sector investment in ensuring reliable and adequate power supply to consumers. “This is also in fulfilment of our promise to the stakeholders to ensure an efficient and safety of airport operations,” he said. Eric Tolsma, Managing Director of Janpour Group, the builder of the power plant, said the power plant consisted of eight generators generating one megawatt of electricity each. Tolsma said that the plant was meant to meet the power need of the new terminal to be able to run efficiently on daily basis, adding that it is independent of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC). Abuja Airport terminal ready in 4 weeks – Sirika Buhari commissions 15m capacity Abuja airport terminal FAAN pensioners kick against concession of new airport terminals Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin