The United Nations Women and the government of Norway have called for the inclusion of women in the North East in peace building and conflict resolution efforts. The call was made at the official launch of the Women, Peace and Security Programme in Bauchi, a two-year programme being funded by the Government of Norway. Stakeholders at the launch identified poor representation of women in all areas of economy, peace building and other areas as some of the factors contributing to insecurity and other socio-economic challenges in Nigeria. In an address, the Norwegian Ambassador to Nigeria Mr. Jens-Petter Kjemprud said the low or little participation of women in policy making was compounding the problems of insecurity. He lamented that hundreds of women are either being held in captivity by insurgents or are made to bear the burden of activities of criminal elements in the North East and other parts of the country. “Women and children held in captivities of Boko Haram have been in trauma as they return to their communities. Here, the roles of religious and traditional leaders are very important in this context. We know that women have been side-lined in the process of peace making for too long”, the Ambassador said. Mr Kjemprud said that Nigeria was part of Norway’s peace programme adding that a national conference on women peace was held in September 2017 in conjunction with the Norwegian government hence the decision to empower women in Borno and other states to participate in peace building and mediation. The ambassador said Norway accorded priority to women because they constitute more than half of the country’s population and were important in running the affairs of the nation. In his address, the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma  said government  was ready to support any intervention capable of bringing peace and security to women. Senator Udoma  said that investing in women and girls would transform Nigeria by increasing productivity and promoting sustainable growth, peace and better health for the next generation. UNICEF Nigeria’s Child Protection Specialist, Mr Amos Kudzala said the programme would help  ensure practical implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) in Bauchi, Gombe and Plateau states and to document its benefits to the management,mitigation and resolution of conflict. Declaring the programme opened Governor Mohammad Abdullahi Abubakar said that as part of its commitment to women integration and empowerment government appointed many women to top positions in the state. He added that, his administration had also introduced programmes and policies aimed at improving the socio-economic status of women in the state. Speaking, the only female member, Bauchi House of Assembly, Maryam Garba Bagel, said women’s representation in many sectors was extremely low in the state. NSRP: Peace and stability project Strategising for sustainable peace opening page