Kano State government has appointed Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero as emir of Bichi emirate, one of the newly created emirate. The government also confirmed the upgrading of  District Heads of Karaye, Rano and Gaya to first class emirs for their respective emirates. Confirming the incident, the State’s Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, said the new emirs would receive their letters of appointment on Saturday at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium. Until his appointment as emir, Bayero was the Wamban Kano, a position given to him by the present emir of Kano, Muhammed Sanusi II after promoting the former Wambai, Alhaji Abbas Sanusi to the rank of Galadima following the death of late Galadiman Kano Tijjani Hashim. Other emirs of Karaye, Gaya and Rano, who were upgraded To the status of emirs from district heads are Sarkin Karaye Alhaji Tafida Abubakar ll, Sarkin Gaya Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir Gaya and Dr Ibrahim Abubakar ll. Meanwhile Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano state has said that the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II is supposed to report to a local government chairman and not to him. Ganduje who was reacting to the uproar trailing the creation of four new emirates from the Kano emirate council, said the splitting of the council was not a vendetta against Sanusi. “ So it is not vendetta, I am not against him, in fact he is supposed to be reporting to the local government chairman according to the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria.” “ It is the local government chairman that is suppose to discuss issues with him not the governor. So this is celebrated by the people of Kano and we will make sure that the new Emirate council are effective in terms of developing Kano State,” he told State House reporters. Read more here Get a copy of Daily Trust on Saturday for the full story and others. Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano Ciroman Kano: The Road Not Taken by Sanusi Bayero UPDATED: Kano Assembly moves to create four additional emirates Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin