Police spokesman, DCP Frank Mba in a chat with Daily Trust, gave an insight into some of the causes of kidnapping, and how to check it. Excerpts: Daily Trust: Why has kidnapping persisted despite the efforts of the police? DCP Frank Mba: There are several strands of kidnapping in Nigeria. There is kidnapping as an opportunistic crime, as a fall-out of militancy in the Niger Delta, as a fall-out of the terrorist insurgency in the North, kidnapping that is a tactical fund-raising tool for terrorist organizations and kidnapping as purely an economic crime. Several criminogenic factors are driving kidnapping in Nigeria. Some of them include unemployment, socio-political and economic exclusion, drug abuse, the proliferation of light weapons, poor funding of the police and other law enforcement agencies, radicalization and violent extremism, the culture of political violence/thuggery, the collapse of family values among others. DT: What steps should be taken to permanently end kidnapping in Nigeria? DCP Mba: A multi-dimensional policy trust aimed at addressing the massive youth unemployment in the country. For example, investment in sports development, strengthening of local government administration, job creation, investment in agriculture and entrepreneurial skills, etc. Also, implementing pragmatic and sustainable counter-terrorism and de-radicalization programs, political and economic inclusion of the youths are points. Again, deliberate expansion of security infrastructure across the country like building more police stations in local communities and proper funding of the police and other law enforcement agencies would help. Provision of modern crime fighting tools and technology, synergy among law enforcement agencies, building regional multi-dimensional platforms for tackling crimes, for example, the use of the instrumentality of the West African Police Chiefs Committee (WAPCCO) to tackle the trans-national challenges usually associated with the illicit transactions connected to kidnapping like prostitution, human trafficking and money laundering. Tackling the challenge of drug abuse and strengthening security at our borders to tackle the proliferation of illicit weapons. Also, 261 kidnapping suspects have been arrested in Nigeria with 131 of them arrested within the first three months of the introduction of ‘Operation Puff Adder.’ DT: What about allegations that kidnappers cannot succeed without collaborators in society and security agencies? DCP MBA: The nature of kidnapping involves the setting up of an organized structure, right from the planning stage to the conclusion of the actual act of kidnapping. Kidnappers have different people that play different roles. Some act as their informants, some gather ‘intelligence’ on targeted victims, some help in concealing their illicit funds, some act as their gun-runners and gun-keepers, some act as their errand boys/girls, among others. Therefore, certainly, kidnapping cannot thrive without the active connivance of some of these collaborators.  Insecurity: IGP launches operation ‘Puff Adder’ Kidnapping: An open letter to acting president Goodluck Jonathan JUST IN: Police nab suspected killer of traditional ruler in Kaduna, 17 others Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin