The judiciary and the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, must work hard to correct the scam of the just concluded general election, Alhaji Aliyu Bello has said. Bello, the youth leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna state in a statement insisted that the elections remain the biggest scam of the 21st century. “As a people, and also a group, we also strongly share in the views of most Nigerians as well as those of various domestic and international observers that the 2019 general elections is the biggest scam of the 21st century. ” We believe strongly, that the INEC manipulated the results of presidential elections at all levels in favour of the ruling APC. This is because, in view of the worsening security situation, poverty and want, increased unemployment and inflation, and the general economic downturn over the past four years, it will be unfair for anyone to think that majority of Nigerians would senselessly vote to reinforce their sufferings. ” Obviously, it was Alhaji Atiku Abubakar that the people voted. Thus, we support Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s petition before the tribunal, and believe without any iota of doubt, the Atiku legal team shall prove his case at the tribunal beyond reasonable doubt,” he said. Bello who is the Northwest coordinator of the Atiku team, said that the rest of Africa was watching, and the world too. ” Our judiciary must rise to the occasion and set the pace for Africa and the black race. Their Lordships must make a very strong statement against electoral fraud and fraudsters. Never again, should perpetrators of electoral fraud be allowed to enjoy stolen mandates.” “We also call on INEC to cooperate with all parties to help the tribunal come up with a just, fair and credible judgement. It is bad enough, that in spite of the hundreds of billions of tax payers money expended on that election, the outcome failed to meet with globally acceptable standards and hence, the various litigations before the tribunal. INEC must cooperate with the tribunal to correct its mistakes, and return power to the people,” he said. NEW 20: ‘INEC should conduct credible polls in Kogi, Bayelsa’ ‘INEC should conduct credible polls in Kogi, Bayelsa’ Nigeria decides today Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin