The Coalition of Public Interest Lawyers and Advocates has called on the members of the incoming 9th House of Representatives to stick to a choice without a moral burden and questionable history in the coming speakership election or risk a reputation in the face of the entire world. The coalition, in a statement signed by Pelumi Olajengbesi Esq, said based on the outcome of its investigations on contenders for the position of speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila should not be considered because of his purported indictment while practicing as a lawyer in Georgia, the United States of America. The group said Gbajabiamila’s presentation for speakership by the APC government was an indictment on the anti-corruption fight. “The green chamber is a hallowed ground and its choice of leader must be one measurable by the loftiest standards, impeccable in character and devoid of flaws which can haunt its image nationally and internationally. “Having constituted ourselves as the conscience of the Nigerian people and being standard bearers advocating for the best possible leaders in our country, it is our patriotic duty to watch diligently all the governance processes in our land. “The race for the House of Representatives speaker has thrown up a certain Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as a key contender. “We demand for an immediate explanation from Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila to the Nigerian people on the issue of his conviction and why he should still be allowed to be speaker despite such record. We find it insulting to the country that Femi Gbajabiamila could present himself for such huge public office despite tainted records,” the statement read in part. Leadership: Lawyers warn NASS against external influence Speakership: Youth coalition rejects Gbajabiamila Governor Ajimobi asks Oyo APC Reps to back Gbajabiamila for speaker Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin