The Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, has refused the request of the management of the Odu’a Investment Company Limited (OICL) to nominate representatives of the state government that would function on the company’s board. Lagos State had recently become the newest member of the regional investment group. During a visit yesterday to Gov Ambode at the Lagos House, Ikeja, the OICL board members, led by its Director, Alhaji Tajudeen Bello, requested from the governor, among other things, the appointment of members that would represent the state on its board. Ambode, however, responded that he would rather defer the appointment to the new administration that would be succeeding him, saying that would be a means to ensure that the interest of the state was fully represented and sustained. “That in itself will propel the payment of the remaining residue for the shares also. You can have our commitment that we would put it in our handing over note so that it becomes something of priority. The whole idea as we have said is to be able to use our God-found location in geographical terms to our best advantage, which is what the Odu’a Investment Group stands for,” he said. The governor expressed his conviction of the total economic integration of the south-west region, which he gave as his reason for propelling his administration to join the OICL, saying it would be a win-win situation for not just every state in the zone, but also the nation at large. Alh Bello, who described the entrance of Lagos into the Odu’a group as “courageous”, expressed confidence that the move would engender a positive impact on the socio-economic development and advancement of the south-west geo-political zone “based on its commercial enterprise and uncommon resilience and resourcefulness.”   Eko Atlantic City designed to boost economy – Ambode Eko Atlantic City will boost economy – Ambode How Lagos assembly is caging Ambode with impeachment threat Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin