Over 1,000 vigilante members popularly known as Yan sakai have surrounded Dandume Divisional police station in Dandume local government,  insisting on retrieving and killing of some suspected bandits whom they  apprehended in the afternoon. Daily Trust gathered that some suspected bandits had stormed Unguwar Madugu to purportedly carry out an attack on the village but were over powered by the vigilante and 22 of them were apprehended. Few minutes after their arrest, a combined team of police and army arrived the scene and retrieved the bandits and took them to the station. The action of the security personnel did not go down too well with the vigilante that made them storm the station to retrieve them and killed them. It led to a tense stand-off and exchange of fire between the vigilante and security personell.Confirming the incidence, the local government Transition committee chairman, Haruna Ja Abdullahi said the suspected bandits had earlier prevented the community people from observing their Jummat prayers which led to the invitation of the security personnel. Before they could arrive the vigilante had equally mobilised their men and confronted the bandits and apprehended some of them. It was at that point the security personnel came and retrieved the bandits from them saying that ” we are all aware that security personnel will not allow jungle justice in their presence. They took them to the station and kept them their and the Yansakai stormed the station insisting on collecting them ” he said. He said, in the last few days no one could sleep as threats from the bandits had forced people to remain awake all night. Insecurity: Guns galore, as Nigerian villagers arm selves Katsina: Death toll rises as vigilantes, bandits clash escalates Many killed as vigilantes, bandits clash in Katsina Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin