A renowned Islamic cleric and scholar, Prof Kamaldeen Balogun on Sunday described President Muhammadu Buhari’s survival of health challenges in 2017 as a victory over “forces of darkness.” Balogun, a Professor of Islamic Studies, said “some cabals and forces of darkness” who have allegedly hijacked the nation’s economy, “were not pleased with Buhari’s anti-corruption stance.” “They actually wanted Buhari dead, but God saved the President,” he alleged on Sunday while delivering the 18th annual Ramadan lecture of Hal-Jazaau Islamic Society of Nigeria in Abeokuta, Ogun state. In 2017, Daily Trust recalls that President Buhari spent more than three months in London where he was treated for undisclosed ailment. The clergyman who spoke in Yoruba during the lecture titled “Nigerians: Let’s Appreciate Allah”, described those he tagged “forces of darkness” as enemy of the masses who are bearing the brunt of the  “poor governance of the past governments.” Balogun, who is the founder and Chief missioner of the 36-year-old society, identified lack of human dignity, trust and accountability on the part of leaders as factors eroding good governance in Nigeria. He admitted that Buhari “is surrounded by corrupt officials”, yet insisted that Nigeria has a better leadership in the President. “Cabals abound in all nations and usually, they are not more than 20 people. In Nigeria, those cabals are not more than 20. And many people know them. There are Muslims and Christians among them. “Of all the past presidents, we have not produced one similar or near Buhari in terms of integrity. And that appears to be the only thing he has. So, in terms of leadership, Allah has given us in President Buhari. “I have said it that majority of the people who surrounded Buhari are corrupt. But I am happy that we have started seeing prove that Nigeria can be better given the calibre of the leadership we have in this country,” Balogun said. Buhari’s victory: Inter-faith clerics commence 3-day praise and worship in Abuja Buhari challenges wife, others over cabal claims Assist us to overcome forces of destruction, Buhari tells clerics Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin