Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo has warned the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, to stop casting aspersion on his personality. Okorocha alleged that Okechukwu had continued his media attacks on him saying “even when one had thought that with the 2019 elections over, he should have stopped his insults having seen that the election had proved that without him (Okorocha) there was nothing like All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-East in general and Imo in particular.” Okorocha was reacting to media reports in which Okechukwu accused him of ruining the APC in South-east. A statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, said that Okorocha had toured the whole of South-East when nobody believed that APC was going to see the light of the day and succeeded in winning the governorship for the party in Imo, 24 out of the 27 members of the House of Representatives, one Senate and five House of Representatives seats for the party. “But prior to the 2019 election those playing the politics of 2023 in 2019 recruited men like Osita Okechukwu against Governor Okorocha, blackmailing him at the least opportunity they had, and gave the erroneous impression that without Okorocha, they could fly in Imo and South-East generally with APC. “But in the 2019 election, the fact spoke for itself, that Okorocha truly holds the ace of APC both in Imo and in the South-East generally. And a careful look at the 2019 election results showed that Okorocha was in charge except that with the crisis men like Okechukwu created in Imo APC, INEC capitalized on that and I did some strange things,” the statement reads in part. The governor alleged that Okechukwu lost all the elections for the party in his polling booth, ward and local government. Okorocha however challenged Okechukwu to publish the results of his booth, ward and local government in all the elections. “He does not talk about APC in his state, but always talking about Imo APC because he knows, that is the only state in the South-East APC is grounded before they used wicked blackmail and unfounded propaganda to inject virus into the party,” he added. How son in-law may succeed father in-law in Imo Governor Okorocha responds to suspension  by APC APC suspends Okorocha, Amosun, others for ‘anti-party activities’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin