Adam Lamido Sanusi (Ashraf), a son of Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, has said the creation of four additional emirates by Kano governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje will only stand if the governor was on the right path. It would be recalled that Ganduje had, on Wednesday, signed into law, a bill for the creation of four new emirates for Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi believed to be an attack on Emir Sanusi. The signing of the bill by the governor generated uproar, though Ganduje had said that the creation of the new emirates was not a vendetta against Emir Sanusi. But Adam, in an Instagram post early Saturday, said that his father was being attacked because of his blunt stance on issues. “Between the Emir and the Governor, whoever is right, we pray succeeds. My father speaks what is on his mind when he believes he should and I don’t believe he is wrong for this. “If he is dethroned or reduced in status then, I still wish for my people to get a right and just leader like him. If he is increased, I still wish that he continues to be just,” he said. Adam urged Nigerians commenting on the issue not to insult anyone or make rash decision. “I am not an expert in politics or personal relations. In all honesty, I thank those of you that supported my dad, but try not to insult anyone when you speak your opinions. “Try not to make rash decisions without fully understanding the situation. Do not hate anyone because they favour the other as they may not fully comprehend what is happening,” he said. Adam therefore, advised that the situation be left to those with experience and knowledge to handle it.  Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano Sanusi should report to LG chair, not me – Ganduje BREAKING: Ganduje appoints Ado Bayero's son, 3 others emirs Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin