The Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Munta Abimbola has pledged the commitment and co-operation of the state’s judiciary towards ensuring that cases filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), are given special attention. Speaking in Ibadan on Wednesday, when the head of the EFCC, Ibadan zonal office, Friday Ebelo, led a team of officers of the commission to pay him a courtesy visit, Justice Abimbola, lamented the dire implications of economic and financial crimes on the nation and its image. He stressed the need for the judiciary and prosecuting agencies to work together for expeditious dispensation of criminal cases. He expressed his discomfort over the number of EFCC cases pending in some of the courts in the state, promising to take action to address the development, and also find a way of giving those cases from the commission special attention. “It is important that we speedily dispense those cases,” he said. While reacting to Ebelo’s earlier request for the creation of a special court to handle cases from the commission, Justice Abimbola said, in line with the directive from the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Courts 9 and 15 of the State High Court have already been designated for handling criminal matters, adding that such was the reason most of the EFCC’s cases were assigned to the two courts. He recalled having a fruitful meeting with the acting Chairman of the commission, Ibrahim Magu when the latter visited the state in January 2016, saying the interaction  had further educated him on the workings of the EFCC. While stating the reason for the visit, Ebelo had declared that he was at the premises of the state High Court at the instance of the acting chairman of the commission, stating that Magu held the judiciary in high esteem for their cooperation with the commission in ridding the nation of crimes and criminality.  Anti-corruption crusade: EFCC’s struggles in court EFCC arraigns ex-NIHORT Director, others over N124m fraud Major judicial cases of 2019 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin