Say No Campaign, a coalition of Civil Society Organisations, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reconfigure his anti-corruption fight by ensuring that people with questionable character are not appointed into sensitive positions. The Convener of the group, Mr Ezenwa Nwagwu, at a news conference on Wednesday in Abuja, said appointing such people is capable of curtailing the independence of key anti-corruption agencies and the fight against corruption. Nwagwu said the group wants the president to immediately order the resumption of prosecution of outstanding high-profile corruption cases involving politicians like Mr Babachir Lawal, the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) among others. He said that the last four years of Buhari’s administration witnessed renewed vigour in the fight against corruption in Nigeria especially with the introduction of the Treasury Single Account, Bank Verification Number among others. He said that the period also witnessed a trial of a sitting President of the Senate and a Chief Justice of Nigeria on allegations of corruption. He said while these represented important milestone in anti-corruption fight, hemorrhage in public sector resources remains a challenge while many involved in cases of corruption adding that abuse of authority has continued with impunity. “One of the greatest disappointments in the fight against corruption comes from the office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice whose actions and inaction have continued to bring shame to the proclaimed anti-corruption campaign. “Statutory provisions make the AGF office pivotal to the fight against corruption charging it with the sole responsibility to deliver justice, sadly Nigerians recall many shady roles the AGF has played to frustrate the anti-corruption fight.” NAN 12 CSOs want Malami removed for undermining Buhari’s anti-corruption wars Publish report on Babachir, Oke, group tells Presidency ECOWAS Youth Council honours Buhari’s aide Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin