The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has appealed to all the three tiers of government to decisively and urgently deal with the rising insecurity across the country. CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, who was represented by the Acting General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, disclosed this at the 7th Peace and Award Ceremony organized by Ufuk Dialogue in Abuja. “We have people who are sincere in this country to turn things around for the better. Government has all the equipment to secure lives and property in this country. Government should be much more serious and committed to security,” he said. He urged all authorities concerned to fulfil their onerous duty of maintaining law and order and the protection of life and property across the nation. Also speaking, a former Deputy Governor of Plateau State, Pauline Tallen, expressed concern with the level of insecurity in the country. She pleaded with security forces to be fair and sincere in tackling the menace and called on all adherents of religions to tolerate each other. “My advice to the security agencies is for them to be fair and sincere in tackling the security situation in Nigeria because it is most unfortunate that innocent lives are taken,” she said. The President of Ufuk Dialogue, Kamil Kemanci, said group strived to ensure peaceful coexistence by bridging gaps of differences through inter-religious understanding and also served as inter-cultural and intellectual platform aimed at providing information, opinion exchange and to promote education. He said, “Today, we need dialogue and peace more than we need food and shelter. Dialogue and peaceful coexistence have always been and still remain a need; a must for us to have a healthy and more productive society.” Those conferred with awards at the event were the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari; CAN President, Rev. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle; and the Chairman, Fatwa Committee, Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs and Chairman, Assembly of Muslims in Nigeria, Sheikh Shariff Ibrahim Saleh Al-Hussaini. Insecurity: Jonathan summons govs, service chiefs, others How insecurity is destroying Nigeria’s economy — Bafarawa Killings: IMN calls for justice Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin