The National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to replace all the service chiefs to end insecurity across the country. Engr. Sani, who spoke with journalists yesterday in Abuja, wondered how the level of insecurity could change when the same set of service chiefs had remained in the saddle. “On the issue of insecurity, I think we know why it has become so embarrassing. We cannot be doing the same thing and be expecting different results. You cannot retain the same service chiefs in the same positions and expect a different result,” he said. “If it were to be your private company where you recorded a low turnout, will you continue with the same manager?” he asked. He added that, “This president (Buhari) should be somebody who should know more than all of us that to boost the morale of the force is something that is at the bottom of commitment. The president knows what to do as a former head of state.” Sani, who backed multiplicity of political parties, however, advised INEC to set certain criterion that parties should meet before they would be allowed to be on the ballot. He said the APC and the PDP had continued to dominate the political space because they had government at either the state or national levels. “Election in this country is not just what the electorate wants; it is about how much control one has over the security apparatus or people’s money. Parties like ours are not there yet,” he said. On the need to trim the 91 registered political parties, he said, “I think that for a growing democracy like Nigeria, with over 200 million people according to the United Nations (UN), with so many religious and ethnic diversities, it is okay to allow the multiplicity of parties so that those who may not be interested in the national politics but are interested in their locality can be involved.” 2019: Yabagi Sani meets Obasanjo, says current leadership lacks knowledge Self-announced salary cut, a window dressing — Ladoja The politics of restructuring Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin