Two sales girls who allegedly stole N2.947 million, property of a firm, Kiddies Planet, are now cooling off at the female wing of the Kirikiri Prison, Lagos. The girls, Theresa Ekunke, 37, and Amarachi Chukwuma, 28, were arraigned before an Igbosere chief magistrate court on a two-count charge of stealing. Police prosecutor, Awatse Godwin, alleged that on May 20, 2019, the duo conspired at about 10am at Ikota Shopping Complex, Ajah, Lagos, to commit felony punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015. According to the police, Ekunke and Chukwuma stole N2.947m, property of Kiddies Planet, which was represented by Mrs Blessing Nwachukwu. Kiddies Planet is a major player in kids’ resources, including babies equipment, toys and babies clothes. Trouble started when a relation of the employer of the accused ladies called her to inform that she was on her way to make some purchases. The relation was said to have actually made the purchases from the sales girls, who were alleged to have given her their private account details into which she paid over N300,000 the same day. The girls were also alleged to have shared between them other sales made on that day. Their employer said that she had been suspicious of the girls’ moves because each time she came to the shop, they were always telling her “no sales”, which she said she believed due to the country’s economic situation. The employer consequently invited the police, who the police said recovered N300,000 from one of the defendants and another N95,000 from the other. The suspects pleaded not guilty to the two-count criminal charge. They were, however, granted N1m bail each, with two sureties in like sum. Magistrate Ope Agbe ordered that the sureties must be gainfully employed and the police must verify their addresses and tax clearance receipts. Trial in the matter has been fixed for June 13, 2019. At the time of filing in this report, the suspects were yet to perfect their bail conditions.  Lagos police trace stolen 2-yr-old girl to Enugu, arrest 3 women 2 pastors in court for allegedly stealing 2-year-old girl ‘How we monitor our victims from pedestrian bridges’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin