NextTv, a new media and entertainment platform, is set to challenge the monopoly enjoyed by South Africa’s Multichoice Digital Satellite TV’s (DStv) monopoly in Nigeria’s payTV market. The platform, a joint venture partnership between Nigus International, Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) and China Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC) pledged to make satellite television affordable with quality service delivery. Under the new arrangement, Nigus International will be the lead partner holding a 75 percent equity stake, while NigComSat holds 15 percent equity and CGWIC holding 10 percent equity stake. The Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, while speaking at the launch of the satellite service provider to the NigComSat Direct-To-Home (DTH) platform in Abuja, urged Nigerians to patronise and invest in the company. He said the partnership within the next few years would produce about 1.5 million set-up boxes and in doing that many more Nigerians will get jobs. He assured management of the satellite television of government’s support to ensure that the new partnership makes huge entry into the market. Executive Chairman of NextTV, Mr. Malik Ado-Ibrahim, said, “We have flexibility from the market giving us tremendous opening to reach large number of people. So we are very comfortable that Nigerians and Africa in general would be able to access our service and get quality entertainment contents. “NexTV is not just about entertainment but satellite communication, broadband connectivity and accessing digital content through different platform across Africa. That is why we launched the OGT service and i think that is where we are going to be successful. There is mobility where you don’t need a TV but a smartphone to access contents,” Ado-Ibrahim said. NIGCOMSAT launches Direct-to-Home services Satellite: FG moves to stop N720bn annual loss NITDA seeks closer ties with NigComSat Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin