A 22-year-old youth corps member, Jemila Yusuf, serving in Kaduna State, says she makes N60,000 from the sales of beauty products and beauty consultancy. Yusuf, who resides at Shooting range area of Kaduna, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). “I’m a graduate of Mass communication and I have passion for beauty. I like women who care about their looks and do all the needful to take care of themselves. “Due to the passion I have, I decided to join an international beauty company (name withheld) in November last year, where I was able to run my business online. “The company is a multi-leveled marketing company where one can gain not only from selling products but also by registering Interested people; in order words you don’t need much capital to start”, she stated. She mentioned that she started the business with N22,000 and was able to get N6,000 profit after selling the products she bought. The beauty consultant also noted that she had trained four people in the business, who were all female and were doing well, adding that she earned through them too. Yusuf explained that the business had helped her greatly in solving her financial needs and helped her looked good, adding that she no longer seek financial assistance from her parents. She said that she intended to train more people, especially young graduate and stay at home mum, in the business and make more sales in the nearest future. She called on youths to learn a trade or engage in legal and authentic online businesses that would earn them money while they wait for a white collar job. (NAN) Women flourish on  make-up business ‘I learned bead making for fun, but now it’s a money spinner’ ‘You must be organised to grow as an entrepreneur’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin