A member of the House of Representatives, Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure (APC, Jigawa), has asked President Mohammadu Buhari to reverse, with immediate effect, the reappointment for a second term, of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele. Kazaure, who made the call on Wednesday at a press briefing in Abuja, said he had documented evidence of corruption and incompetence against the CBN Governor, dating back to the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan. He described Emefiele’s reappointment as ill-advised, and capable of derailing the federal government’s change and next level master plan, and thus called on President Buhari to not only reverse the reappointment, but also ensure thorough investigation into Emefiele’s tenure. “We are in the government of change, and we are heading to the next level. But the reappointment of the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, surprised me and many other Nigerians of integrity. “We believe Buhari is a man of integrity; he is also fighting corruption. But if we can remember in this country, many things happened under the Goodluck Jonathan administration. “Now, we are accusing Dasuki, Diezani, and Nenadi Usman of corruption. But we have not asked who was in charge at the CBN when all the money was released,” Kazaure queried. The lawmaker urged the President to look for a more qualified, reliable and corrupt-free Nigerian who can reform the economy, arguing that it was hangers-on and bad advisers who misled the President into the unexpected bad decision. According to him, Nigerians have lost confidence in the ability of the CBN Governor to stabilise dollar-naira exchange, suggesting that the Deputy CBN Governor, Suleiman Barau, be appointed into Emefiele’s place. He, however, warned that Emefiele’s reappointment, if not reversed, could open a bad precedent of appointing men and women of questionable character into sensitive positions. Nomination of Emefiele good for Nigeria’s economy - Uba Sani CLO coalition lauds Emefiele’s reappointment Emefiele's reappointment: Buhari appreciates competence, hard work – Dickson Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin