Less than 30 days to the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, the retinue of hangers-on around the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has substantially diminished, Daily Trust observed. Our correspondent gathered that the number of lawmakers that usually cling around the two presiding officers to pay obeisance have also reduced, perhaps in anticipation of an expected change of leadership in June. Before now, it normally took about 15 to 20 minutes for the presiding officers to be ushered into the chambers owing to the number of lawmakers and others who normally line up to shake hands and exchange pleasantries. In recent times, however, it now takes less than five minutes for both Saraki and Dogara to make their ways from their offices to the chambers in part because of the reduced protocol of greetings and obeisance; officially and unofficially. Our correspondent also observed that activities in their various offices are gradually thinning out as shown by the significantly reduced number of visitors and phone calls. Even staff in the offices now seem to appear less busy, a sharp contrast to the usual hustle and bustle, as well as busy schedule of the two offices. Furthermore, access to both offices and to the staff has become less stringent as opposed to what obtained previously. A ranking PDP lawmaker in the House of Representatives who spoke to Daily Trust on condition of anonymity, described the situation as “normal” but stopped short of saying whether or not Dogara would be returned as speaker in June. “You know, the end of the legislative life of the 8th Assembly is almost here. So, there is nothing unusual if the people around the senate president or speaker have diminished. That’s normal, if you ask me,” he said. Asked if he saw that as an indication of imminent change of batons, especially in the House of Representatives, the lawmaker quipped, “I don’t know.” Senate President Saraki will not be returning to the 9th Senate having lost his Kwara Central in the February 23, elections to Yahaya Oloriegbe APC. Although Dogara was re-elected in his Bogoro/Das/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency, the Bauchi-born lawmaker has not officially indicated interest to re-contest the speakership. Highpoints of Buhari’s budget presentation Race for Senate President, Speaker: APC fails to pacify  Saraki, Dogara Crisis: Senate defiant, House bows to party Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin