Two persons, who the police described as members of a kidnap-for-ransom gang, have been arrested at Igando, Lagos, for allegedly abducting a two-year-old girl from the Agege branch of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles (MFM) church. The suspects, identified as Nwaigbo Magnus and Sixtus Osunwoke Egwim, were arrested at a hideout by policemen attached to the Igando police station while they were allegedly waiting to collect the ransom they had demanded from the child’s parents. It was learnt that the abducted child, Esther Ojo, was allegedly abducted from the church premises about a month ago. Ojo was recovered in an operation led by the Igando Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Taiwo Kasumu, a Chief Superintendent, based on an Intelligence report which he received. It was learnt that the kidnappers, Nwaigbo Magnus and Sixtus Osunwoke Egwim, were arrested while waiting to collect ransom at a location they had asked the baby’s parents to bring the money. The police were said to have been on the trail of the suspected kidnappers since they (kidnappers) established contact with the child’s parents, Mr and Mrs Oladipo Ojo, to demand ransom. It was gathered that the suspects gave the parents six different locations to drop the ransom in order to ensure a trap was not set for them. They were eventually apprehended about 12.30pm yesterday. It was gathered that the suspects led the police team to their hideout where the baby was recovered unhurt and handed over to her parents. The child’s father, who could not hold back tears, said his daughter’s safe rescue had restored his faith in the police.  Police arrest 2 suspected kidnappers, rescue 2-yr-old girl Police rescue kidnapped 2-year-old baby girl, arrest 2 Five arrested over abduction of doctor, lecturer Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin