Bitrus Pogu is the national president of Middle Belt Forum. In this interview with Daily Trust on Sunday, spoke about the struggles of the forum and its idea of restructuring, among other issues.  What kinds of struggles have you been pursuing under the Middle Belt Forum which you are currently serving as national president? The forerunners were the late J.S. Tarka and the rest who started this movement when the country was coming up towards independent. They looked at the situation critically and realized that the British were dealing mainly with the three blocks; the Yoruba, the Ibo and the Hausa. And being minorities spread across the North they felt the better thing to do was to come together as a block so that they could also be heard and have their share in the new Nigeria that was to be formed. This was how the Middle Belt Movement started. Of course, they even had a political party to which some people benefited at the onset. It initially started as a Christian movement but gradually they realized that many of the nationalities in the North are not Christians. So it widened up to the extent that when the party got formed some Muslims benefitted. For example J.S. Tarka brought Ibrahim Imam from Borno who was a Kanuri to contest and he won in Gboko. That was the kind of brotherhood with which the Middle Belt Movement started. So its sole aim is to have a voice to be able to fight for the voice of minorities in the North. We don’t like the word minority; we prefer using ethnic nationalities which are non-Hausa Fulani. But gradually the Kanuri now felt it is not an issue of minority; that they are also a majority so they are teaming up more with the Hausa Fulani. What we have today in the North is the Hausa-Fulani-Kanuri dominance and we minorities from the North are teaming up as Middle Belters, trying to assert ourselves and get our share in governance.  So far would you say your struggles to achieve your aim have yielded any positive results? Of course, people who started before us have done what they could and we are trying to move it forward. Up till now many of our people have not come to the realization of the need to fight as a group. When you are many you become stronger. Really, if we should all come together with the realization that as Middle Belters we can also assert ourselves we can also be the majority because we will be more than the Hausa-Fulani-Kanuri. We would be more than the Yoruba and the Ibo. So we are trying to bring to the fore the struggles of the nationalities; be it the Adara struggles. So we go out and do our best while also fighting for the rights of Middle Belters like the Adara people and our brothers in Benue and Taraba.  We also try to enlighten our people to understand that they are not second class citizens to anybody.  The Middle Belt region is currently bedeviled by myriads of security challenges ranging from herders/farmers crisis to armed banditry and kidnapping. What do you think is responsible for this and how best can it be tackled? The narrative out there is that the Sahel Savannah in the Sahara is encroaching and no more producing in terms of grass and whatever, so the herders are coming in. I don’t buy into that. What I see is just criminality being sponsored by some political persons within the North who feel that they lack the numbers in Nigeria to assert themselves. When Obasanjo came in, if you look carefully at the results, the Middle Belt played a major role in bringing him into governance. That is to say the far North cannot do it on their own. To me they are actually using these foreign Fulani to come in and terrorize our people and chase us out of our lands and change the demography. I continue to say this; we have lived with our local Fulani for long and know how to resolve issues. When Fulani cattle encroached into somebody’s land the local village head or ward head would come and resolve the issue. If the Fulani was at fault he would settle the farmer and vice versa. They lived together for a long time but this introduction of herdsmen coming to attack people is a new dimension altogether. The President once said the fallout from the Libyan crisis provided a platform for such thing to happen in Nigeria. I agree with him to some extent because many of these people are not Nigerians. They are a militia but where do they get these arms from? People must be buying these arms and they certainly go around conniving with some of the local Fulani to cause mayhem. We are convinced that this thing is beyond just cattle rearing. It is the rich Savana grasslands of the Middle Belt that they want. You can see what is happening in Zamfara. There are Fulani and Hausa in Zamfara but with the coming of gold these people are unleashing terror on Zamfara. So to me it is a ploy to change demography. Since even the time of General Obasanjo we have witnessed that people have been coming into this country to attack and up till now they are still coming. You see them coming as cobblers and petty traders and if you find out some of them are from Niger, Mali and are all over the country. So the question is who is bringing them in? That is a question the Minister of Interior should answer.  The president recently spoke in favour of true federalism. Against the background of agitations for restructuring are you excited? We don’t know what the President meant when he said he is going to implement true federalism. True federalism or devolution of power or call it restructuring to us is just two sides of the same coin. We pray he does that to allow states to be true federating units so that fiscal federalism which is also an aspect will come to play and we can develop our areas and be able to have peace. The most important thing in Nigeria today which is an integral part and responsibility of government is provision of security and welfare of the people. Our governors are doing whatever they can within their capacities. Some are bold enough; like Ortom of Benue and Darius Ishaku of Taraba. They have come up boldly to say look, this is what we can do and we must do it. Some are doing it in a more subtle way but on a general consideration, we can say they are doing quite well but they can do better.  For you in the Middle Belt what kind of restructuring are you envisaging? If you look at how states have been created; Gowon created 12 States and after him, Murtala came and did his own and it continued up to General Abacha. In each exercise you would see that to some extent problems were addressed but not totally solved. Up till now we can see that in Benue the Idoma/Igede side would want to have a state of their own so that the Tiv can be alone. We the people of Southern Borno are not sharing things in common with the Kanuri from Borno North. We would also want to have our own. We have such situations all across the Middle Belt; we have some tribes that are Balkanized into states. For example the Karekere which are found in Yobe, Bauchi and Gombe constitute a significant group. We take the Wurkum in Plateau, Gombe and Taraba. We would want these nationalities to be able to have a sense of belonging in the nation. So such adjustments are needed in the Middle Belt. In Nasarawa the largest group is arguably the Eggon who are spread across three senatorial districts. But an Eggon man has never been a governor. So things like creation of states, devolution of powers, state police are things we need. If Middle Belters are there as our police, controlled by our governors no bandit group would come in and policemen would be there watching without defending the people.  But critics of state police argue that it is going to serve as tools in the hands of Governors to perpetrate state terror..? Politicians and Nigerians generally would always want to exploit the situation but the truth remains. Even the federal police are manipulated by governors sometimes even though they are federal policemen. But there are limits to this manipulation. Mr. President would manipulate the police in the way he wants; give instructions to the IG who would pass it on to the commissioners in the states. But all the same the governors are able to manipulate them. If we have state police it is all the same; despite the fact the governors are believed to be overbearing with all the resources and influence over the state police I would also believe that no governor elected by his people would want to undermine his own people using the security infrastructure he has in the state. I don’t see a Middle Belt governor unleashing terror using state police on his people. Of course, political opponents are the ones propounding this kind of ideology because they feel the governor owns the police and might use them for electoral benefit but the truth remains that in the past election the military and police were used but if we had had electronic voting it would have been a different thing. Middle Belt Forum protests Police siege on Benue Assembly Middle Belt Forum restates call for restructuring Middle Belt Forum denies endorsing Atiku Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin