Air Peace has said it lost over N1.2bn in the last one year due to exorbitant charges imposed on the carrier by some West Coast countries. Chairman of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema disclosed this even as he called attention of the Federal Government to what he called “unfair competition” going on among foreign airlines with a view to discourage Nigerian airlines planning international operations. He spoke in Lagos during the unveiling and inauguration of members of the Board of Directors of the airline. The Chairman said it took some West Coast countries years to respond to Air Peace’s request to fly into their countries, saying when they eventually acceded to their request, they imposed exorbitant charges. He said though many people believe the regional operation is very lucrative, the airline had lost N1.2bn in the last one year due to high charges imposed with the intent to squeeze out the airline. Onyema said: “Air Peace has lost over N1.2bn in the last one year operating to the West Coast because of exorbitant charges. How long are we going to continue doing it? They want to run us out. When they run us out, they may have a field day in Nigeria.” The Chairman said he would soon approach the Federal High Court to stop some airlines from flying into Nigeria. Disclosing that the airline would soon commence the international flights to Sharjah, Dubai, Johannesburg, among others, he said some countries had started threatening to impose unfavourable policies which would ensure the carrier does not last on the international routes. Those unveiled as members of the Board include Mr. Mutiu Sunmonu, Chief Emeka Ngige, SAN; Mrs. Ekaette Bassey Okoro, Engr. Benedict Adeyileka, Alhaji Muhammed Danjuma, Mrs. Ejiro Eghagha and Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide. Why Nigerian airlines die Air Peace flies 500,000 passengers in 1yr ‘FG should play international aero-politics to help airlines’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin