* Trucks, tankers operators get 72hours to vacate roads A Presidential directive has been issued for the immediate clearing up of the Apapa gridlock in Lagos state. A taskforce chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been constituted with a two-week mandate to clear the gridlock. The directive mandated the immediate removal of all trucks from the bridges and roads within Apapa and all adjoining streets leading into the Apapa axis. To facilitate the clearance, operators of trucks and tankers have also been directed to vacate the Port Access Roads within the next 72 hours. A presidential spokesperson, Laolu Akande, in a statement, said the directive followed an emergency meeting convened by President Muhammadu Buhari and chaired by the Vice President on the 25th of April, 2019. The meeting proffered lasting solutions to the gridlock around the Lagos Ports, as the traffic congestion has continued to restrict all operations and livelihood in the area. At the meeting were key heads and representatives of relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government, including the Honourable Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola; Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu; representative of the Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral B.E.E Ibe-Enwo; Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Salaam Taiwo Olufemi; and the Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Dr. Sokonte Davies, among others. Consequently, a Presidential Taskforce, chaired by Osinbajo has been constituted to restore law and order to the area within two weeks. The Taskforce, which will report directly to the President, has included on its Terms of Reference: Members of the taskforce include Mr. Kayode Opeifa, former Commissioner of Transport in Lagos state, as the Executive Vice Chairman; a representative of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC); the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); and the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC). Other members include a special unit of the Nigeria Police Force led by a Commissioner of Police, representatives of the Truck Transport Union, the Lagos State Government through the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), and other relevant MDAs. The Nigerian Navy and all other military formations have also been mandated to withdraw from traffic management duties in and around the Apapa axis, while military and paramilitary checkpoints in front of the ports and environs are to be dismantled. In addition, LASTMA has been authorised to move into Apapa as the lead traffic management agency, while the NPA is to commence the immediate use of the Lilypond Terminal and Trailer Park A as a truck transit park. The directive further mandated compliance by all security personnel and MDAs, while heads of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Nigeria Customs Service, Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, and all other security operatives are to ensure their officers’ adherence to the new directives. Apapa gridlock persists a month after Osinbajo’s intervention Why we prevent truck drivers from locking down Lagos – Police chief Senate committee gives final ultimatum on ending Apapa gridlock Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin