The office of the Attorney General and Minister of Justice has taken over the $8,400 fraud case filed against five officials of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP), led by Okoi Obono-Obla. The accused officials are the NFF President Amaju Melvin Pinnick, General Secretary Muhammed Sanusi, First Vice President Oluseyi Akinwunmi, Second Vice President Shehu Dikko, and executive committee member Ahmed Yusuf. They were charged to a Federal High Court in Abuja, for alleged mismanagement of $8,400 belonging to FIFA, and failing and neglecting to declare their asset. The officials were charged on a 17-count charge, marked FHC/ABJ/CR/93/2019, for misappropriation of funds remitted by the world governing body FIFA as fees for appearing at the last Russia 2018 World Cup. They were also accused of moving N4 billion belonging to the NFF without the consent of the football federation. The accused were scheduled to be arraigned today. But last week, the Director of Public Prosecutions of the Federation (DPPA), on the orders of the minister of justice wrote a letter dated May 22, 2019 with reference number DPPA/PET/205/19 to Mr Obla directing him “to forward the case file” to the office of the DPPA “for further action.” The DPPA cited the judgement of the Court of Appeal between Tijjani Musa Tumsa vs FRN and Anor “regarding the capacity of your (Obla’s) panel to commence criminal proceedings.” Insiders told this newspaper that the justice ministry’s move was a ploy by Pinnick and the other accused to avoid being docked today at the Federal High Court, Abuja. Yesterday, the Solicitor General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary in the ministry of justice, Dayo Apata, did not pick his calls or replied to a text message sent to him for comment on the story. He, however, sent a text message, saying he will call back later.  He never did until press time. Also, the mobile phones of the Special Assistant to the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) on Media, Othman Isah Salihu, were unreachable yesterday, and he did not respond to a text message. The five NFF officials are also being investigated by the EFCC and ICPC for alleged squandering of $9.4 million grants from FIFA – allegations they all vehemently denied. $8.4m FIFA grant unsettles Nigeria’s football for 5 years NFF stinks again as court tries staff over missing N3.4 billion Nigeria escapes FIFA ban as FG endorses Pinnick board Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin