A contender for the office of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) National Chairman, Chief Onwuka Ukwa, has said he would restructure the party to win elections at all levels in 2023, if given the mandate. Chief Ukwa said he is a representative of the pillar of the founding fathers of APGA and would rebuild the walls that had been broken down by what he described as greed, short-sightedness and avarice, for the party to regain its health after several years of internal brawl. In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, the contender for the APGA’s apex seat said he believed in internal democracy and the supremacy of the party, but added that APGA cannot survive another term “in the hands of rent seekers and narrow-minded politicians.” Chief Ukwa said he has the political clout, good will, experience and competence to make APGA a truly national party, adding that the vision and mission of the founding fathers must not be allowed to die or remain stunted. “I Chief Onwuka Ukwa, a founding father of the party who understands the vision of APGA, is coming out to help restructure the party by seeking to became the next national chairman of APGA. “I am not coming to preside over the disunity and disintegration of APGA but totally sold out to the vision for a formidable, united and restructured party which will be in tune with the heart cry of the founding fathers. “Under my leadership, APGA will clinch the speakership of different State Houses of Assembly, produce senators and governors because I have the expertise to help the party make inroads across the country. “I possess effective public relations skills and the rich political contact to spread APGA across all strata and barriers of our national life,” he said. Anambra 2014: APGA Screening Committee was never teleguided, party Chieftain Gov. Ikpeazu wins re-election bid in Abia APGA vows to sue Okorocha  for cross-carpeting Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin