The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) yesterday commenced hearing on allegations of harassment of vulnerable women during  recent raids on nightclubs within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). FCT Administration officials and representatives of over 72 rights groups and individuals were present at the commencement of hearing presided over by the Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Tony Ojukwu. Ojukwu, while declaring the hearing open, said the commission received several complaints over alleged unlawful arrests and maltreatment, which seemed to be targeted at women. He said civil rights groups last Friday came to the NHRC building to protest alleged abuse of women in the FCT and other parts of the country, brought to limelight by the recent nightclub raids resulting in the detention of many women. Ojukwu stressed the need to mainstream human rights into the operations of the FCTA in pursuit of overriding public interest. While urging the FCTA through its agencies to ensure that its officials act within the law, especially while handling issues pertaining to  women, he disclosed that there were arrangements for training of relevant FCTA officials on human rights while carrying out their duties. Making a presentation on behalf of the 72 civil society organizations across Nigeria and private citizens, the Country Director, Amnesty International, Osai Ojigho, said the petition specifically raised the issue of disturbing reports on unlawful arrests, assaults, sexual violence as well as verbal abuse against women in the FCT. They alleged that within two weeks, about 100 women were arrested by agents of the FCTA taskforce team on the allegation that they were sex workers as a result of their presence on the streets. Responding, the Acting Secretary, FCT Social Development Secretariat, Hajiya Safiya Umar, said the 34 women apprehended by the FCT team were not in any way assaulted by policemen, adding that she ordered their release on bail. While calling on the commission to invite club owners for counseling, she emphasized that prostitution shouldn’t be encouraged as a woman has a strong hold in the development of society.  Rights commission summons AEPB boss over nightclubs raids NHRC: 52 complaints pending before SARS presidential panel Unlawful retirement: NHRC commences public hearing on petitions from Ekiti Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin