Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Thursday urged workers in the state to brace up and contribute their quota to the development of the state, saying that they cannot afford to fail at this critical period. Speaking at a meeting with Civil Servants and Permanent Secretaries during his familiarisation tour of offices in the Secretariat, Alausa, Governor Sanwo-Olu, acknowledged that there were challenges, but urged the workers not to be deterred but imbibe the right attitude to work. “I just want to say to Lagos residents that new things will begin to happen. Yes, there are issues and that is why there is a word ‘issue’. There will be issues, there will be challenges but out of it, looking at all your faces, we cannot afford to fail the citizens at this period. So, my charge is this: whatever we know that we are not doing so well even in the period of Ramadan, let’s ask God for forgiveness,’’ he said. The Governor, who was accompanied by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and the Head of Service (HOS), Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, acknowledged the rousing welcome from Civil Servants and heads of parastatals who had gathered as early as 8a:m to receive him (the Governor). Earlier, the HOS had introduced the Governor to the workers after which they accompanied him on a walk to the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, where they sang different songs to his delight. The Governor also advised the workers to be change agents, assuring them that their concerns would be addressed, but that the workforce must reciprocate his good intention through hard work and innovations to bring about the desired changes and development. “I know that when we take care of you, you will take care of Lagosians. Those are the promises I want to draw from all of you. I know all these because I have been here before but let us begin to think and innovate on how we are going to bake a bigger cake; let us begin to think out of the box and when we do that it becomes available for all,” the Governor said.  Sanwo-olu meets workers, signs order on refuse, traffic mgt Sanwo-olu meets Lagos workers, signs executive order 2019: No political gang-up can stop Sanwo-Olu, says Lagos APC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin