Mr Mohammed Ibrahim Tanko is now the new Managing Director of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN), Kaduna. Mr Tanko takes over from erstwhile MD, Ibrahim Dutsinma Boyi. Tanko graduated in 1984 with a B.Sc. degree in Agric Economics from the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; he also bagged an M.S. in Banking and Finance from the Bayero University, Kano (BUK) in 1998. Mr Tanko has over 30 years’ experience in the Nigerian banking sector. After his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) mandatory service at First Bank of Nigeria Plc in 1985 at the Kano regional office. He joined the Afribank Nigeria Plc in 1988 as an Executive Trainee in Kaduna where rose to an Accountant. He later joined Habib Nigeria Bank Limited in 1993 as the Head, forex department where he worked till early 2000, serving in various capacities as branch manager in Kano and rising to a senior manager. Mr Tanko worked at Intercity Bank Plc between 2003 and 2005 where he served as a Principal Manager in Kaduna. At Unity Bank Plc where he worked from 2006, he served as the Executive Assistant to the Managing Director/CEO, HOD, Human Capital Management Department, and was elevated to Assistant General Manager and Deputy General Manager respectively till 2011. From 2011 till 2013, Tanko was the Executive Director in Charge of Information Technology & Operations of the bank where he served at the Central Business Directorate of the Bank covering Abuja Central, and most of the north central states. He left the bank on November 2013 for private practice During these periods, Mr Tanko had trainings on leadership and strategic courses with the most recent from Harvard Business School, in the United States of America (USA) in April 2013. Other trainings he received were from the Lagos Business School, Strategic HRM in Dubai, Oracle University in Dubai and leadership training in Abuja by Ashford & McGuire.  23 federal agencies get new heads page 55 NAHCO Plc appoints new MD/CEO Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin