A gospel musician, Michael Arowosaiye, has committed suicide a month after his wedding was called off, City News has gathered. A close friend of the gospel artiste, however, suspected the suicide was impelled by a spiritual attack. The friend, who identified himself as Sam, added that the Michael he knew would not have committed suicide as he was very okay and that money was never his problem. “He was in church on Sunday and people said he was smiling and playing with everybody but could not go to the choir because he was suspended,” he said. He explained that the deceased was among the choirmasters at the Shepherds House Assembly, Apo, but was suspended two months ago. The keyboardist, who hanged himself in Sunny Vale Estate, Lokogoma District, Abuja, on Tuesday evening, was well known in the Pentecostal circles. His wedding was supposed to take place at the Shepherds House Assembly on Saturday, April 27, 2019, before it was called off over allegations of unfaithfulness. A call placed to a number on the church’s website which, Truecaller identified the receiver as John Bajeh, said he was not allowed to talk to journalists on the issue then he dropped the call. Sam further said the deceased was not a member of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) as widely circulated on social media, but that he performed for the church during its special programmes. He said they both performed during the 77 hours of marathon praise in March at the Redemption Camp. Sources in the estate said Michael was alone in the compound when the incident happened. A source familiar with the incident said the deceased stayed in the boys’ quarters of an apartment in the estate, adding that he was given the place for free by the landlord. The source said there was no suicide note to know the cause of his action but was sure that it was not connected to payment of the house rent. A source within the security outfit in the estate said the deceased was discovered at about 9 pm by another resident who had climbed his water tank to check if the water was pumping. “The man saw him trying to tie a rope around his neck and he shouted calling out to people. He jumped down from the tank and rushed to the gate but it was locked. Then he called the person residing in the next apartment who looked through the rear fence that separates the building to discover that it was true,” the source said. He said it was then that people jumped into the building where the man was discovered. “A cable was found around his neck. They removed it and lay him on the ground. A medical doctor was with them and they tried to resuscitate the man but it was late,” the source said. He said the police who were invited, arrested three people but they were later released when the police saw a tape from the CCTV in the compound.  URBAN WARFARE: suicide attacks kill 54  in borno Final hours of New Nigerian staff who killed self Council''s finance director commits suicide in Ekiti Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin