A constitutional crisis is brewing in Zamfara State as the Supreme Court has fixed May 16, 2019, for hearing of the appeals over the disqualification of the APC candidates in the 2019 general elections. The APC had won the gubernatorial as well as all the national and state assembly seats in Zamfara State, but the joy of those elected was short-lived when the Court of Appeal declared that their party did not conduct valid primaries, a development that induced anxiety in the state as to what would happen as the May 29, 2019, inauguration day inches closer. The Supreme Court had on Thursday, May 2, adjourned the matter to May 16, to enable the parties regularise their applications. The five-member panel of justices presided over by the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, observed that there were too many irregularities in the 21 motions filed in respect of the appeal against the disqualification of the APC candidates. The adjournment came up after Counsel to the Kabiru Marafa-faction of the APC, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), had asked for leave to regularise his motion to file supplementary record/transfer or records, cross appeal and all the motions in the matter. But Counsel to the Gov. Yari group, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), objected to the applications challenging the appeal and told the court to order that the preliminary objection and the brief of arguments of parties in the matter, including his counter affidavit, should be taken together. The hearing of the appeal, which is coming barely two weeks to the May 29, hand-over date, has elicited a lot of public interest as the non-determination of the matter could leave the APC with no candidates for the various elective positions in the state. Some of the persons likely to be affected include the Governor-elect, Mukhtar Shehu Idris; Senators Abdulazeez Yari (Zamfara West); Aliyu Ikra Bilbis (Zamfara Central); Kaura Tijjani Yahaya (Zamfara North); seven elected members of the House of Representatives and 24 House of Assembly members. They all belong to the incumbent governor’s camp. The opposition PDP scored the second highest valid votes in the general elections. For instance, in the governorship, while Idris got 534,541, his closest opponent, Dr. Bello Muhammad Mutawalle of the PDP polled 189,452. The candidate of the National Rescue Movement (NRM), Sen. Dansadau scored 15,177, while Dr. Abdullahi Shinkafi of APGA garnered 3,865. The Gov. Yari-backed faction of the APC had filed the appeal before the Supreme Court challenging the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Sokoto which set aside the judgment of the Zamfara High Court recognising the party’s primaries of October 3 and 7, 2018. Delivering judgment in the appeal by the Marafa faction, a two-member panel of justices presided over by Justice Tom Yakubu ruled that the lower court failed to properly evaluate the evidence before it as it concerned the conduct of the APC primaries in October, 2018. The appellate court ruled that the Yari faction failed to contradict INEC’s evidence that it failed to conduct a primary in line with the party’s guidelines, and therefore upheld the nullification of the party’s candidates. However, before the latest order, the Court of Appeal in Abuja had on February 21, in a cross appeal by Yari’s faction, nullified the January 25, judgment of an Abuja Federal High Court which upheld the decision of INEC not to recognise candidates of the APC in Zamfara State. The appellate court held that the matter brought before the high court was statute barred having been filed outside the 14 days provided by law and was therefore incompetent. Lawyers’ reaction Senior lawyers have expressed confidence in the ability of the apex court to decide the Zamfara APC matter before the May 29, hand-over and June 6, inauguration of the 9th National Assembly. Owonikoko (SAN) said since the matter had been scheduled for hearing on May 16, and that it would be better not to pre-empt the outcome by making comments on the likelihood of a vacuum in the Zamfara positions. Also, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), who is a lawyer in the matter, said he was confident the matter would be decided before the hand-over date, adding that parties were likely to withdraw some of the motions brought before the court, which would make it easy for the Supreme Court to quickly attend to the main appeal. Ahmed Raji (SAN) also explained that “the Supreme Court will resolve the issue shortly.” Zamfara APC: Supreme Court fixes May 16 for hearing of motions 2019: Supreme Court verdict dims Rivers APC fate Zamfara APC: Marafa writes Bulkachuwa over delay in setting up appeal panel Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin