The judiciary and INEC must work hard to correct the mistakes of the just concluded general elections, a youth leader in Kaduna, Alhaji Aliyu Bello, has said. Alhaji Bello who is the PDP Youth Leader in Kaduna State, in a statement yesterday, insisted that the presidential election remained the biggest contentious process of the 21st Century. He said, “We believe strongly that INEC manipulated the result of the presidential election at all levels in favour of the ruling APC. This is because, in view of the worsening security situation, poverty and want, increased unemployment and inflation and the general economic downturn over the past four years, it will be unfair for anyone to think that majority of Nigerians would senselessly vote to reinforce their suffering. “Obviously, it was Alhaji Atiku Abubakar that the people voted. Thus, we support Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s petition before the tribunal, and believe without any iota of doubt, the Atiku legal team shall prove Atiku’s case at the tribunal beyond reasonable doubt.” Bello who is the North West coordinator of the Atiku team, said the rest of Africa was watching “and the world too.” He added that, “Our judiciary must rise to the occasion and set the pace for Africa and the black race. Their lordships must make a very strong statement against electoral fraud and fraudsters. Never again should perpetrators of electoral fraud be allowed to enjoy stolen mandates. “We also call on INEC to cooperate with all parties to help the tribunal come up with a just, fair and credible judgement. It is bad enough, that despite the hundreds of billions of tax payers money expended on that election, the outcome failed to meet with globally acceptable standards and hence the various litigations before the tribunal. INEC must cooperate with the tribunal to correct its mistakes and return power to the people.” Why judiciary, INEC must correct alleged '2019 elections scam' -  PDP youth leader Nigeria decides today Who picks PDP’s ticket in 2019? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin