Federal Executive Council (FEC) yesterday approved N27.7bn for the purchase of grains, meters and a road project in Abaji, Abuja. The approvals were granted at the FEC meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Briefing newsmen after the meeting, minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Audu Ogbeh said N9.4bn was approved for the purchase of 60,000 metric tonnes of grains. “We have got approval to buy sixty one thousand tonnes of maize, millet and sorghum and the purchasing will begin shortly. “We also informed council of the problem we have with Nigeria grains especially maize, and groundnut. An infestation called aflatoxins which the Minister of Health confirmed is a very big threat to the liver and the kidney of most consumers. “Luckily, IITA has found a product which they produce in large quantities which they now send to Africa for treating the farms, the Silos and the sacks in which we put the grains to eliminate aflatoxin,” he said. Also, the minister of Power, Works and Housing Babatunde Raji Fashola said N7.1bn has been approved for the construction of an inter-change and pedestrian bridge at Abaji in Abuja. Fashola said N11.2bn was also approved for the purchase of meters for the Yola Electricity Distribution Zone. “The company  is under the Federal Government’s management. So they are buying 200217 meters for consumers under their franchise which covers Adamawa, Borno, Taraba and Yobe States. “The cost of those meters is N11.208bn. It is to be funded from the judgement sum that I previously briefed you about two years ago that council approved a compromise from an old meter’s supply dispute since 2003. So that money is in a bank, it has been there, so that is where these meters would be funded from and as consumers pay back the meters as they are supplied, the money goes back into that account,” he said.  FEC approves $1.5m AfDB loan for Lagos - Abidjan road Nigeria signs Safe School Declaration FEC approves N11bn for fire fighting trucks, tech building Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin