The re-appointment of Godwin Emefiele has continued to draw positive reactions in and out of the country, just as the Association of Nigerians in Europe has hailed the President’s decision as the final victory over ethnic and religious bigotry. This commendation is coming barely one week after a United Kingdom-based group, Arise-Nigeria, lauded President Muhammadu Buhari over his reappointment of the CBN Governor for another term. Association of Nigerians in Europe in a communiqué issued at the end of the 5th Annual General Meeting, which held in Belgium to deliberate on recent happenings in Nigeria expressed excitement over the reappointment of Godwin Emefiele as Governor of the apex bank. The Association also commended the numerous sacrifices made by the Nigerian troops fighting terrorism in North East Nigeria and also praised the leadership of the various Armed Forces in providing sound guidance and direction for the services. The communiqué was jointly signed by Dr. Agwu Onyeke President, Arc. Adesugun Lawal (Ukraine), Chief Adekoya (Italy), Engr. Bright Anyanwu (Spain), Mr. Godspower Smith (Germany), Chief Chuba Chime (UK) Mr. Charles Ayoola (UK), Prof. Afik Babarinde (Cyprus), Mrs. Anita Ibeh (Malta, Dr. John Umeh (Republic of Ireland) and Tobias Idoko esq (Netherlands). “The Association of Nigerian Professionals in Europe commends President Muhammadu Buhari for reappointing of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefeile. This action is a deviation from the past, where hard work and dedication to duty are always sacrificed on the altar of politics. On the state of the Economy, the Association of Nigerian Professionals in Europe commends President Muhammadu Buhari for restoring confidence on the suitability of Nigeria for businesses that have seen to a significant increase in the number of Nigerians relocating back to Nigeria to contribute their quota to the development of Nigeria. The Association of Nigerian Professionals notes the laudable initiatives in the critical economic sectors that were implemented by the current administration in proactive ways that have caused a turnaround in the economy of Nigeria,” reads part of the communique. Emefiele: Buhari consolidating on milestones on economy, security — UK group Buhari's reappointment of Emefiele silenced critics, says UK-based group CBN: Reps back Emefiele's confirmation Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin