Heads of Anti-Corruption Agencies have requested Heads of Government in Europe, the United States and other jurisdictions to work towards speedy and unfettered repatriation of recovered assets to African countries. This was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the 9th Commonwealth Regional Conference of Anti-Corruption Agencies in Africa at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort & Spa in Kampala, Uganda. The event took place between May 6 and 10, 2019 and was attended by most of the Heads of anti-graft agencies in Africa with a theme titled: “Time to act: Prevent corruption for sustainable development.” President of the Republic of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni declared the conference open on Monday, May 6, 2019 while the Commonwealth Secretary General, Hon Patricia Scotland, spoke on remarkable achievements of anti-graft Agencies in Africa. The Acting Chairman of the EFCC and the immediate Chairman of Association of Anti- Corruption Agencies in Commonwealth Africa, Ibrahim Magu, spoke during the conference and highlighted major achievements of the commission under his watch. Experts from different walks of life further gave illuminating experiences and solutions on how to tackle the menace of corruption. The communiqué further urged Anti-Corruption Agencies to emulate the EFCC and acquire polygraph technology as part of their investigative and integrity testing process. The EFCC is the only agency in Commonwealth Africa using the technology for corruption cases in courts. An investigator with the commission had demonstrated the use of the Polygraph just as other agencies made enquiries from the EFCC on how to acquire the technology for positive development in anti-graft war. Magu heads commonwealth anti-corruption agencies in Africa Magu in the throes of history at EFCC Anti-graft war: Okei-Odumakin seeks support for EFCC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin