Some lawmakers from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives, have lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the Senate for the reappointment and confirmation of the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele. Emefiele, who was reappointed last week for a second term by President Mohammadu Buhari, was on Thursday confirmed by the Senate. Briefing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the lawmakers, led by Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano), described Emefiele’s confirmation for second term as an endorsement of his good performance in the last five years, with particular regard to the growth and development of Nigerian economy. “With the support of the Leader of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, we are here to dissociate ourselves from the opinion of one of us, Mohammed Kazaure, with regard to the reappointment and confirmation of the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele. “To that end, we are in complete support of the appointment made by Mr. President, and the subsequent confirmation of Emefiele by the Senate. We commend them for that. “This is because of the good works Emefiele has done in the last four years. Everybody can see the President made the right decision, especially considering Emefiele’s stride in reducing inflation, GDP expansion, economic growth and raising of the country’s foreign reserves,” Jibrin said on behalf of other lawmakers. He added that the CBN Governor has also recorded impressive achievements in diversifying the economy by empowering local rice farmers, and stabilising the Naira in the last four years. He also lauded Emefiele for his initiatives in ensuring that Nigeria escaped from a crunching recession and looming national strikes, which threatened to derail the country’s economy. The backing by the lawmakers is coming 48 hours after another lawmaker, Mohammed Kazaure (APC, Jigawa) kicked against the reappointment of Emefiele on the grounds of incompetence and corruption, praying that the decision be reversed. APC Reps fault Kazaure on Emefiele’s reappointment Reps ask Buhari to reverse Emefiele's reappointment BREAKING: Senate confirms Emefiele's reappointment as CBN governor Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin