The Diocesan Bishop of Anglican Communion, Diocese of Egba West, Rt. Rev. Samuel Oludele Ogundeji has cautioned President Muhammadu Buhari against one-sided appointments ahead of his inauguration for second term in office. The Bishop spoke at the 3rd session of the fourth Synod of Egba West Diocese, Ogun State held at St. Mathew’s Anglican Church, Aseese, Mowe-Ibafo. The Clergyman submitted that if the one-sided appointments, which allegedly favoured some sections of the country in Buhari’s first term, is not addressed immediately, it may cause some negative reactions from different quarters. Bishop Ogundeji also warned that “no religion must be given greater prominence over the other because our country is a multi-religious nation.” He equally called for the downward review of the jumbo salaries and allowances of political office holders in the country to enable many states meet up with the new minimum wage. On security challenges, the cleric asked the Federal Government to redouble its efforts towards nipping in the bud, the incessant killings and kidnapping across the country. “We call on President Muhammadu Buhari and his cabinet to intensify their efforts on the issue of insecurity, health care, road networks, education, agriculture, unemployment, power supply and other amenities that will better the lives of the generality of the people in Nigeria. “The matter of the one-sided appointments into key positions in our nation must be addressed immediately before it causes some negative reactions from different quarters because the country belongs to all of us. “No religion must be given greater prominence than the other, because our country is a multi-religious nation. Those who are in possession of our looted money must be made to refund them without bias or discrimination, so that our economy can bounce back again,” he said. Buhari salutes Bishop Idowu – Fearon Fuel scarcity: Buhari not to blame - Anglican bishop Bishop Kukah’s attack on Islam Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin