Popular Nollywood actress Tonto Dikeh may have dumped the movie industry as she took to her Instagram page to preach to her fans about God’s love for his people. Her action is coming less than 24 hours after the Board of Trustees (BOT) of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) Prince Ifeanyi Dike threatened to sanction her over “bad behaviour” exhibited concerning her marriage. Dike said “She is exhibiting bad behavior that we will no longer condone. What she should realize is that every marriage has its own issue. No one marriage is perfect. Issues like that are private. It is very unbecoming of her to portray us in bad light. There are so many actors who have issues with their marriages without getting the public involved.” “Her actions do not speak well of the industry. We are not interested in her private matters; rather we are concerned about her attitude which is rubbing off negatively on other actresses.” “Actions like this portray the industry as having unserious ladies. That is why men are scared of marrying actresses. Thank God that we have good examples in the industry. If she is looking for sensation, she should look for something else to use.” “Honestly the Board of Trustees is not happy with her and if she continues this way we will sanction her. We do not encourage bad behavior.” However, Tonto Dikeh, in her Sunday morning sermon, urged fans to always trust the word of God as it had never failed. READ MORE: Nigerians react to Tonto Dikeh’s exit from Nollywood Reacting to her sermon, One of her followers with name gossipota_ said: “@tontolet Aunty, believe it or not, you be scam … you go preach, quote Bible passage and in the afternoon, you act so toxic and you can’t forget or forgive … and you call yourself believer… that’s not the way of Christ Aunty … It’s not at all. Be deceiving yourself”.  Fans react to Tonto joining DB label Tonto Dikeh’s hubby opens up on marital crisis, Bobrisky Tonto Dike’s song arouses criticisms: She’s better off acting - Novia Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin