Bagadaza community, a residential area at the suburb of Gombe metropolis has organised a peace meeting between Muslims and Christian faithful to broker peace in the aftermath of crisis that erupted in the state after the killing of eight children during Easter celebration. Gombe metropolis was under a 12-hour curfew since last Saturday when a funeral ceremony of the eight members of the Boys’ Brigade killed by an officer of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), turned violent. The situation, which was earlier seen as an accident by a reckless security personnel was turned into a religious clash by miscreants from both sides who  used the opportunity to attack unsuspecting people. However, in an effort to broker peace between the adherents of the two religions in the community organized the peace parley to promote peaceful coexistence among residents of the area. According to the conveners, the meeting was held to strategize ways of living in peace among residents of the community irrespective of religious and ethnic differences. The representative of Muslim faithful in the area, Alhaji Salisu Andi, said many issues were deliberated during the meeting and the two communities have agreed to continue living in peace without any form of harassment or  intimidation. Alhaji Salisu added that, the youths, who constituted majority in the meeting, had agreed to embrace peace and have pledged not to engage themselves in any crisis. On his part, the representative of Christians, Mr Yusuf Musa Gyalengu, said such meeting would be organized from time to time in the area to discuss issues relating to peace. He also said the adherents of the two religions are living peacefully in the past and would continue to always put efforts to ensure that  the youths embrace peace at all times. The organizers of the peace parley urged the police and other security agencies to provide the area with enough security personnel for daily patrol in the area.  BREAKING: Gombe government reviews curfew on Gombe metropolis Govt reviews Gombe metropolis curfew Jos crisis: JNI, Igbos meet to broker peace