It is 11 days since the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) and its three vendors launched the sales of 900,000 meters under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme. However, over 10,000 customers of the Distribution Company (DisCo) that applied to buy the meters have not had their residents verified or prompted to pay for the meters. At the flag off held at River Park Estate in Lugbe, Abuja, the Managing Director of AEDC, Engr. Ernest Mupwaya, said the scheme covered its electricity customers across Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger states within 36 months. Mupwaya said while Mojec International would handle customers in the FCT and Kogi, Turbo Energy would meter customers in Niger and Meron would install meters for AEDC customers in Nasarawa State. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) approved the payment of N37,000 for a single-phase meter and N67,000 for a three-phase meter starting from May 1, 2019. An applicant, Mr. Olu Femi, said he applied 11 days ago through AEDC website platform where he got an application reference number. Mr. Gabriel Amadu, a resident of the FCT, had similar complaint, saying there was no confidence in the system because only verification process was taking more than a week without response. Chairman of NERC, Prof. James Momoh, at the MAP launch in Abuja on May 10, 2019, was represented by the General Manager, Finance and Management Services, Abdulkadir Shettima. He directed AEDC and the vendors to ensure meters are installed within 10 days after payment, noting that sanctions applied. However, many customers said the regulator did not address the pre-payment stage in the MAP regulations released in April, 2018. They called on NERC to take action and ensure the vendors accelerated their verification process as many customers were already on queue to pay for the meters. Consumer group seeks speedy process Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) are also joining calls to have the MAP process move faster at the verification level. President of the Nigeria Consumer Protection Network, Barrister Kunle Kola Olubiyo, in an interview, said the vendors procured by the 11 DisCos said they had financial strength and expertise in metering and should deliver. MAP firm says verification causing delay When contacted on the delay surrounding the sale of meters in the FCT, the Managing Director of Mojec International, the vendor for Abuja and Kogi State, Ms. Chantelle Abdul, transferred our reporter to the MAP Project Manager at Mojec, Mr. Michael Onuora, who explained the verification process that should be done by AEDC. He said, “It is taking time based on what we met on ground at the location, we do pre-installation survey, they have to change the cables and a few things so that there won’t be any pressure on MAP. Doing survey takes a few days or a week. We are working with Abuja DisCo to ensure that these surveys are done and approved. After that you start seeing a lot of installation.” Onuora said Mojec had the capacity to install about 10,000 meters in a month based on its contract with AEDC within the FCT, but that, “What was ordered for this month is just 5,000 and of course it will be done. “We make sure we tell the people don’t pay until pre-installation survey is done and it is approved, then we now have 10 days to install,” he clarified. AEDC, 3 MAP vendors begin 900,000 meter sales in Abuja, others AEDC, vendors begin 900,000 meter sales in FCT, others AEDC begins installation of 222,728 meters tomorrow Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin