The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, has disclosed that a patrol strategy introduced by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, targeted towards tackling the menace of traffic robbery in the state has recorded another significant achievement with the arrest of over 10 traffic robbery suspects at the weekend. According to Elkana, the police also recovered firearms and live ammunitions from the suspects. He said that on May 24, 2019, a surveillance patrol team from the Ketu police station foiled a robbery attempt at the Kosofe bus stop. The PPRO said that the police arrested the leader of the gang, whom he mentioned was widely known as Gabazine, and two other gang members, adding that one Samsung phone allegedly snatched from a victim was recovered and handed over to the owner. On May 25, 2019, Elkana said, the same surveillance team on an undercover operation in the same area arrested two traffic robbery suspects attempting to rob some unsuspecting road users. “Two jack knives and a toy pistol were recovered from them. On the same date at about 5am, a surveillance patrol team deployed to the Ketu bus stop arrested two traffic robbery suspects, Ayomide Ayobami and Taye Onofowokan, both living at Agboyi Ketu. One pistol with three live ammunitions and a jack knife were recovered from them. “On the same date at about 1am, a surveillance patrol team attached to the Festac police station arrested Bamidele Ogunbanjo of Prayer Estate, Amuwo Odofin. One locally made pistol with one live ammunition was recovered from him. The investigation is ongoing and all the suspects will be charged to court,” he said.    Two teenagers, 3 others nabbed over robbing in Lagos traffic Two cultists arrested over attempt to disrupt Yaba Tech matriculation Teenage robbery suspect arrested over attack on petrol station Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin