An expert in pension and actuarial science, Dr Musa Ibrahim, has advised young Nigerians to seize the opportunities that abound in the pension industry and build careers in the sector. Speaking in Abuja, Ibrahim said the pension industry had huge array of opportunities for career development. He said the industry contributes a significant percentage of the GDP of the country, and has pension fund and assets that are equivalent to Federal Government budget. “It’s an industry that is going to definitely require a lot of manpower not only in sustaining but prospering the industry. This bourgeoning industry needs a lot of that support,” he told NAN. Ibrahim, who is the founder of the Abuja School of Pension and Retirement Planning, said there was need for academic training in a practical oriented school. He noted that pension asset remained a catalyst for the country’s economic development and the ultimate goal of the pension institution was to ensure prospective students who may seek careers in the pension industry in Nigeria pass through the school. He said the school is significantly designed to provide knowledge on pension administration and management services to public and private employers. The expert said the school aimed at providing opportunities to individual employees desirous of having a deliberate plan of retirement life. He said the institution was also established to train and certify practitioners in the industry, and other industries who may want to enhance their skills of pension administration and management. Ibrahim urged employers in the private and public organisations to prepare workable and rewarding retirement programmes for their employees, this, he said would spur productivity of workers. As Nigeria hosts world’s biggest pension forum Abuja gets school of pension, first in West Africa Can investing pension funds in infrastructure help Nigeria end recession? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin