The Al-Ansar Homes, a Non Governmental Organization (NGO) has donated food stuff to windows and orphans in Kuje area council. Among the food items donated were rice, beans, sugar, vegetable oil, seasoning cubes and salt. The Ameera of the association, Hajiya Amina Mohammed, while presenting the items said the gesture was to assist the widows, orphans and the less privileged to alleviate their hardship at the peak of the Ramadan period. She said the organization,  which was initiated by some women working in Abuja, got registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to assist the less privileged, widows and orphans as a means of tackling the menace of begging on the street. She said the organization has also built an orphanage and school to carter for the needs of the vulnerable groups. “We believe that those widows that are with their family members also need to feel our impact that is why we donate to them during Ramadan and Salah period which has been going on for more than four years that we established Al- Ansar, “ she said. City News report that the organization also held Iftar, (breaking of Ramadan fasting) with the orphans at the centre, while a cow was also slaughtered and distributed to the widows. A widow, Mrs. Hajara Ibrahim, who is a mother of four children, thanked the organization for the gesture, saying life had been difficult for her since she lost her husband two  years ago in a motor accident. She called on other organizations and philanthropists to emulate Al-Ansar by donating to the less privileged and orphans in the area. Ramadan: Orphans, widows get food items Ramadan: Shekarau’s wife donates to needy, widows Ramadan: Community distributes clothing materials to orphans, widows Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin