Chief George Moghalu is the National Auditor of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview, he spoke about the expectations of the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari, the new cabinet, the pending election of new national officers of National Assembly, and the security situation among other important national issues. In a few days’ time, President Muhammadu Buhari will formally begin his second term in office. What should we expect from the government? I agree with you, in the next few days, our president will start a second  journey for a second term. First of all, I want to thank God that despite all the challenges, the difficulties, and the landmines that were laid on the way for him that he has come home clean. He has done very well in the past four years, taking into account the challenges and knowing where he is coming from, for which we are very grateful to God. As he moves into the second term, it is clear that a lot more of the challenges are still there. It’s our prayer that Lord will give him strength and help him so that his desire to leave Nigeria a better place than he met it will be materialised. So, I’m confident that the promises he made in the course of his traversing the 36 states of the country will be fulfilled. Don’t forget that he went round during the campaigns, he met with the people. He talked to the people and he saw the reactions of the people. That alone will spur him to do his best because Nigerians demonstrated gratitude and support. Nigerians encouraged him by the way they received him in the course of the campaign. So, we are looking forward to a greater realization of the campaign promises made. What do you mean when you said that he has done well despite landmines set on his way? In specific terms, what are those things you consider as landmines? Like I said, the challenges were enormous. If you remember, by the time President Buhari was coming into office, the average cost of crude oil in the international market was fluctuating between $28, $30 and $35. It’s less than $40. This was massive drop from $140, $130 being sold in the course of the last administration. So, he was confronted with a very lean result, realizing that the sale of crude oil was the mainstay of our economy. That challenge was there. That was enough a big difficulty. Then, the opposition and everybody are trying to raise issues and problems that in some cases do not even exist. Don’t forget the security challenges of Boko Haram, herdsmen-farmers clashes, and others. These are some of the challenges that are enough to derail any government. But despite all these challenges and difficulties, he is still able to meander through. The opposition is insinuating that the level of insecurity has increased under this government. What is your take? That is not true. That is not fair. Don’t forget that by the time Buhari was coming into government, 14 local government areas were completely excised from Nigeria. That’s one of the key challenges. No Nigerian flag was flying in 14 LGAs in this country – local government that had administrations outside the scope of the authority of the Nigerian nation. That was the situation we found ourselves. So, by the time he came into office, he was confronted with these challenges. As we speak today, I can boldly tell you that there is no inch of the Nigerian soil that is in the control of Boko Haram or any other insurgents. Yes, there may sporadic cases, once in a while, there may be attacks on soft spots. It is also happening in international developed economy. They still have slight attacks on soft spots. But any honest assessor will give the president the credit that he has done reasonably well in addressing the challenges of insecurities. Those coming up now are new phenomena. He has also lived up to the responsibilities. Anyplace where there is issue of insecurities, the way government responds, the way the security agencies are made to move in and address them should be commended. It goes to show a leadership that has direction. It goes to show a leadership that is committed to providing security both for life and properties. One major campaign slogan of the PDP during the last general election was that there is poverty and hunger everywhere. What will the government do this time around? Nobody can say that. Even in America, there is some level of poverty. There is some level of hunger. But the important thing is whether the government is doing something about it. As we speak, you know like I know the level of government’s investment in agriculture. We all know that agriculture is the way to go. If you look at investment today in agriculture, that will tell you that government is committed to the welfare of its citizenry. Very soon, we will become net exporter of rice, quite unlike before. If you check the amount of investment and the money we lose by way of importing rice into this country, very soon, we won’t talk about importation of rice. The government has so much diversified our economy in the area of solid mineral development, imagine the level of investment so that our dependence on oil as the only source of revenue for this country can be put behind us. Government is doing quite a lot. I’m sure that as we enter into the second term of this administration that greater emphasis should also be laid on agriculture so that we can feed ourselves satisfactorily. That I know is a key issue in the minds of leadership of both the party and government. Government is also doing a few other things in the area of social responsibilities with TraderMoni, N-Power, and other social schemes like school feeding. These are ways government has created to make sure that they reduce burden on the Nigerian people. In 2015, it took the president some months before he finally constituted his cabinet. Should Nigeria wait for another six months this time around? Will the party even play any role this time around to avoid that kind of scenario? We should not forget that people pick holes in the inadequate representation of youths in the cabinet, considering their population. You recently said that the party will intervene in the election of leadership in National Assembly. We can see the actions taken by party leadership regarding the zoning of the offices of Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives. You are a stakeholder from the South-East geo-political zone. Abia State chapter of the APC endorsed a former governor of the state, Chief Orji Kalu, for the position of the Deputy President of the Senate in the ninth National Assembly and backed the member representing Isuikwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mrs Nkeiru Onyejiocha, to contest the position of speaker. Are they not trying to go against the position of the party’s national leadership that zoned the position of Speaker to South West? First of all, I will throw back the question at you by asking what is wrong with that. We are in a democracy. People are expected to express their wish. The important thing is that the party desires to create an enabling environment for an executive-legislative cordial relationship. We want a situation where there will be such a strong bond. When the two arms of government are close to each other, respect each other, and relate well with each other, things will be easy and the running of government will be a lot smoother to the benefit of the Nigerian people. That is the major issue. So, that is the major reason why the party came out to indicate its wish where these positions can come from. But there is nobody who has forced anybody. What we are doing is consultation. What we are doing is talking. What we are doing is to encourage discourse and create opportunity for people to express themselves. Don’t forget, we are talking about people’s ambition. So, you can’t will it out suddenly by executive order. You have to sit down and talk to various groups, interests, and candidates by showing them the reasons why you think this is the way to go. The party should guide and that is the role the party is playing. APC will intervene in NASS leadership – Moghalu 2019 Presidency: Strong signals Buhari’ll run again Why Buhari must win 2019 presidential election – Akeredolu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin