A passenger allegedly died at the weekend during a robbery and kidnapping operation on the Benin-Lagos expressway by gunmen suspected to herdsmen. Seven other persons who were alleged to have been kidnapped during the attack and taken into the forest were said to have been rescued by the police who stormed the bush in search of the victims. It was gathered that the incident happened around Okada area on the Benin – Lagos expressway when a mini bus hijacked by the hoodlums was driven into the bush with the abducted passengers on board. It was also gathered that the passenger died during an escape bid when the victims were being marched into the forest by the kidnappers. A relative of one of the victims disclosed that the bus which belonged to one of the popular transport companies based in Benin took off from Ajah, Lagos state and was heading for Uyo, Akwa Ibom state, when it ran into the armed men who laid a siege on the highway, robbing and kidnapping innocent travellers. When contacted, Edo state Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Muhammed, confirmed the incident on phone. He said that the passenger died during an escape bid when they were being moved into the forest by the suspected kidnappers. According to him, “police operatives at the nearest checkpoint were contacted and swiftly moved to the scene to rescue the victim. “The police were able to rescue the victims unhurt but unfortunately one of the passengers who tried to escape during the abduction was killed by the gunmen. The police went after the kidnappers in the bush but succeeded in rescuing the victims.” The police commissioner said they have adopted new strategy which entails taking the war to the kidnappers’ den in the jungle. Mass passenger abductions giving commuters nightmare Kidnappers return with big bang Gunmen abduct police officer, four others in Edo Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin