Amnesty International has asked the Federal Government and the security agencies to “come clean” on the prolonged detention of over 2,000 Boko Haram suspects for three years now. The global organisation, at the weekend in Maiduguri, presented messages of solidarity from its members and supporters and other well-wishers to the widows of the over 2,000 suspects who have continued to fight, under an umbrella group called Knifar Women, for justice to their detained husbands. The presentation was facilitated by a Maiduguri-based NGO, Allamin Foundation. “There are a lot of unanswered questions about the continued detention of these men,” Osai Ojigho, the Country Director of Amnesty International Nigeria, argued, querying, “where are they detained? How many of them have died? In fact, why has the insurgency persisted for 20 years now?” She noted that Amnesty International had been calling for justice for everyone that had suffered various forms injustice during the period of the Boko Haram insurgency, and it had discovered the enormity of the effect of the insurgency on the fabric of family life characterised by the separation of people from their family members. “This is the story of the Knifar Women who have suffered untold hardships, including seeing their children die of hunger following their separation with their husbands,”  Ojigho said. Receiving some of the messages on behalf of the wives of the detained husbands, Fatima Bukar said “our husbands are innocent,” pleading with the public to continue fighting with them until justice is done to their husbands. “We know the truth and we will continue to fight for it,” Yakura Hajja, who received some if the messages, said, arguing, “our husbands are  innocent,” alleging, “ they (security agencies) detain those innocent and release culprits; we will never relent in our fight for justice for our husbands.” Trial of 2,000 Boko Haram suspects Amnesty International: Senior members of Nigerian military must be investigated  for  war  crimes Over 900 Boko Haram suspects killed in detention - Amnesty Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin