Alhaji Mohammed Abdullahi Sugar, an associate of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has threatened to sue the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, over allegations levelled against the former vice president. Twice, Lai had accused the PDP and Atiku of plotting to derail the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. He alleged that by themselves or through proxies, PDP and Atiku are doing everything to sabotage the government. He said they have credible evidence to back their claims. In his reaction, Sugar asked Lai to immediately produce the evidence or face legal action. “We’ll not take this again. It is either he, Lai, come out with the evidence or the court will compel him to do so. Enough is enough,” he said. He said the minister’s allegations were part of the plots of the APC government to portray the former Vice President in bad light, following their failures in two previous occasions. “They are spreading this falsehood because they are afraid that their games are up. First, they started with the allegation that Atiku is a thief and corrupt but up till now, they haven’t found anything incriminating against him (Atiku). “When they discovered that the corruption allegation won’t work, they brought the issue of his citizenship. They alleged that he is not a Nigerian. That one too failed the way APC government is failing. “Now, they have brought the issue that he is planning to derail the government. How can that be possible? This allegation is irrational. Atiku is not a terrorist. “I will drag Lai to court for him to be compelled to substantiate the allegation against Atiku. He must tell the world. This thing must stop,” he said. Sugar insisted that his political associate has no intention to cause crisis in the country. “Atiku is a law-abiding and peace advocate globally recognized. He has on several occasions appealed to Nigerians to shun anything that can affect law and order in the country. “He has confidence in the ongoing legal battle to reclaim his stolen mandate through the court. Whether Buhari, Lai and the APC like it or not, the court will retrieve Atiku’s mandate for him,” he said. 2019: APC, presidency jittery over Atiku's emergence – PDP APC, presidency jittery over Atiku’s emergence — PDP Opposition, cohorts want to derail Nigerian government Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin