Maryam Yakubu, the CEO of EMYAKS a business that supplies party clothing’s ‘Aso Ebi’ – Laces, Ankara and Aso Oke-spoke to YOUTHVILLE about running a business entirely on social media.  Why did you start EmYaks? People this days hardly like going to the market in search of clothes when they know they can easily get it online. And people spend a whole lot of time on social media, I decided to seize the opportunity to make money. Besides I have always wanted to own a business. When I started I registered with CAC and opened a cooperate account Don’t you think people will rather patronise traditional shop owners? Customers can easily make their choice online, once they tell me what they want I send them pictures with prices, they make their choice and I deliver. But in the market they have to go from shop to shop looking for what they want. What has been the high point and low point of your business? The high point was when I got to supply Aso Ebi to a State First Lady last year for her son’s wedding. The low point was paying manufacturers to produce 30pcs of Laces then the client changed her mind. I couldn’t get my money back from the manufacturers. Funding has always been an issue for most start-up, how did you source for funds? I usually go for payment before delivery, but once it’s a trusted client I get loan to supply and collect payment after delivery. How can young people take advantage of the social media? Social media is the best place to advertise and make money, all you need is a smartphone, data, right suppliers and audience. How do you get and retain customers? My clients always come back because I make sure I give them the best quality at an affordable price. I currently have customers in US UK, Ghana and almost every state in Nigeria which I met online. ‘I’ve always wanted to be my own boss’ — Wuraola Nigerians’ craze for expensive weddings Inside the world of wheelbarrow merchants Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin