The Ogun State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Chief Jide Ojuko, yesterday resigned from Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s cabinet over a looming chieftaincy dispute in Aworiland, Ogun West senatorial district, where he hails from. In a letter dated May 14, 2019 and addressed to Gov Amosun, Ojuko held that Gov Amosun’s “recent directive on the issue of Obaship in some areas in Ota State Constituency runs against my conscience and yearnings of my people that I represent”. He said he had wished to return to his people peacefully after leaving office, but with Amosun’s decision, if he continued in office, he would become an “outcast” among his people upon completion of his tenure as a Commissioner. He thanked the governor for giving him the opportunity to serve in his cabinet, stressing that Amosun remained his political leader. Earlier yesterday, chiefs in Aworiland, the domain of the Olota of Ota in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state, Oba Abdulkabir Obalanlege, had alleged a plan by some influential people to install kings illegally in Awori towns. The chiefs warned that any such action without the consent or the approval of the Olota would be fiercely resisted. The spokesman of the aggrieved chiefs and Seriki of Ota, Chief Olanrewaju Bashorun, told newsmen in Abeokuta, “Where there is an apparent intent or suspicion of intent to discredit the will, distort the culture and breach the tradition of the people, it is not always right to keep silent in the face of such indiscretion. “Indeed, we have been told that, against conscience, common sense and justice, some new Obas (kings), whose ancestors were not biologically, historically and circumstantially linked with the Aworis nor had any affiliation with the kingship, would be installed before the end of the month. “Any such action or endeavour without the consent of the Olota of Ota is an exercise in futility and would be resisted with every legitimate means available to us.”  Ogun: Commissioner quits amid looming chieftaincy dispute Glamour and tradition as 14th Olota mounted stool Obaship status: Joy for Ebute-Igbooro community after 143 years Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin