A 26 year-old woman identified as  Bose Isaac who was said to have healed a popular cripple and two deaf persons at the popular Erekesan  market in Akure, the Ondo state capital at the weekend has been rescued by the police as an uncontrollable crowd who also wanted healing stormed the market. Bose,a graduate of  Government technical school , Lokoja was said to be working as an apprentice in a fashion designing shop at Oja-oba where she could not even afford to pay her boss the N3,000 sign fee since February. But, she became a star of sort last week Friday when she was said to have prayed for a cripple who also suffers leprosy identified as Jehrome during evangelism and preaching and the man was miraculously healed. Two deaf men, one Chidi, identified as a recharge card was said to have been healed and the occurrence attracted a huge crowd. As the crowd continues to grow, calling for their own personal prayer amidst jubilation, traders abandoned their wares and other items milling around her to have a dose of the miracle. Eye witnesses said she was taken to the palace of a traditional  chief but the crowd protested that she must be allowed to pray for them and when it was degenerating into a stampede, the police was called to rescue her. Meanwhile, the woman, a native of Isua Akoko in Ondo state who lived in Lokoja and a member of the Redeemed Christian Church was said to have been told by her Pastor that she would be used mightily by God. She also said that she was in the shop one day when a man walked and later came back to her, told her to pray certain prayer and she would discover Gods purpose for her life. One of those that received healing was a 50 year-old father of five, Mr Jerome Ademeso who, a witness said had been living with leprosy for over 42 years.  Dozens besiege Akure to consult ‘wonder baby’ born with healing powers Father of six mobbed for stealing two yam tubers Abandoned road project endangers Kaduna’s deaf students Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin