Operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Lagos State Command, have arrested another suspected member of the gang that the police alleged killed two bureau-de-change operators in Ikorodu, Lagos, two months ago. The latest arrest brought to a total of four persons that had been arrested for their alleged involvement in the gruesome murder of the BDC operators. The latest suspect, Kenneth Ebuka, 23, claimed that he had gone to look for his friend, Mayowa, only to find the operators on the floor tied hands and legs. Ebuka said, “I was arrested in Ogun State where I had fled to when I heard that the police had arrested Pencil and others in connection with the murder. But I was never a party to it. “I had gone to look for Mayowa at his place, but his wife told me he was not at home. She found it difficult reaching him on phone. As I left his place, I saw a friend who said we should go and check him at a boys’ quarters used by Pencil.  When I got there, I met him. I also saw two men on the floor and overheard Pencil saying he would kill the men. “At that point, I told Mayowa that I was leaving because I didn’t want anything to do with the death of a human being. But Pencil shut me up and pointed a gun at my head. He said whatever was seen there should be kept within ourselves. I was not where the men were killed, neither was I aware they were kidnapped. I was only given N40,000 the next day. It was later I got to know that the men were kidnapped and N1.6 ransom collected. That was why I fled to my cousin’s place in Ogun State to hide when I heard that others had been arrested.” Police had a month after the killing of the BDC operators arrested the trio of Oluwatosin Olanrewaju, Mayowa Olawuni and Babatunde Idris allegedly for committing the crime. During interrogation, they revealed where they had dumped the corpses. Last week, SARS operatives evacuated the decomposing bodies from a septic tank where the suspects had dumped them. Two other bodies, believed to be those of rival cult members, were also discovered inside the septic tank.  SARS arrest another suspect over murder of bureau-de-change operators 3 nabbed for alleged kidnap, murder of BDC operators We killed bureau-de-change operators to cover our tracks - suspects Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin