The Kwara State Transition Committee 2019, at the weekend, concluded the public interaction phase of its assignment as the issues of agricultural value chain, rapid infrastructure development, women and youth empowerment topped the agenda. The committee spent the last few days listening to scholars and entrepreneurs on how the new administration can maximise the state’s agricultural potentials, engender growth and build an inclusive society that empowers women and youths. In a paper presented at a two-day workshop organised by the committee, Dr. Limota Goroso Giwa of the US-based Global Fund, urged the new administration to convene an all-women summit to draw up a policy directed at empowering them. Dr. Giwa said women wanted to be respected and properly represented in the decision making process as members of the society, calling on the new government to also prioritise girl child education. Another resource person, Bolade Agbola, urged the new administration to be creative in its revenue drive and effort to cope with population surge. Agbola warned that failure to adjust to the reality of a post-oil Nigeria was a threat to stability, especially when the country’s economic growth was far below its population growth. Other experts who addressed participants at the workshop urged the new government to invest in irrigation, rural roads, schools, healthcare and micro credit scheme to stimulate interest in farming and make the people truly productive. The committee is expected to submit its report to the governor-elect before the inauguration later this month, according to sources. The Chairman of the committee, Mr. Aminu Adisa Logun, said the panel had gathered and processed a lot of quality information and data which he hoped would help the new administration to hit the ground running after inauguration. Mr. Logun said the topics treated at the workshop represented the core areas of the local economy that would help the new administration to transform the state.  Women, youth empowerment top Kwara agenda How I will rebuild Kwara – Ayorinde Adedoyin Kwara Gov-Elect urged to emulate Ahmadu Bello, others Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin