The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has commenced review of the 2019 general elections as part of initiatives for planning for future elections. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said this yesterday in Abuja at the kick-off of post 2019 elections review meeting of the commission’s management and Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs). Prof. Yakubu said yesterday’s meeting was the first since the conclusion of the elections and after the last meeting where they met to review preparations for the 2019 elections. Yakubu also said the commission hoped that the recommendations arising from the national conversation would feed into an enduring reform of the nation’s electoral process. He said the commission would consider the reports of previous committees on electoral reform over the last 40 years, including the Babalakin Commission of Inquiry into the affairs of the Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO in 1986), the Uwais Report on Electoral Reform (2008), the Lemu Committee on Post-Election Violence (2011), the Ken Nnamani Committee on Constitutional and Electoral Reform (2017), among others. “The commission hopes that the recommendations arising from the national conversation will feed into an enduring reform of our electoral process. For it to be robust, we also need to take into consideration the reports of previous committees on electoral reform. Over the last 40 years, virtually all our elections have been accompanied by the report of one committee or the other on electoral reform. “The various administrative reports by INEC, investigation reports by the security agencies (the police and army), the independent studies by the National Human Rights Commission (2015 and 2017), the judgments of the various election petitions tribunals, the reports of domestic and international observers, record of public hearing for the amendment of the electoral legal framework by the National Assembly and even confessional statements by some political actors. “There is value in revisiting all these reports. The commission will work with stakeholders in undertaking such a comprehensive review in earnest,” he said. The INEC boss noted that general elections in Nigeria were always the biggest activities the nation undertook every four years, involving the participation of millions of citizens as voters, election duty staff, security officials, the civil society, faith-based organisations, traditional leaders, socio-cultural organisations, the National Peace Committee (NPC) and the media. He said the general elections also attracted intense international attention from observers, the diplomatic corps and the media. “Many observers have already submitted their interim and final reports on the elections. Many Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) appraised various aspects of the exercise. The judiciary in Nigeria is also adjudicating many petitions challenging the conduct of primary elections by political parties, as well as the outcome of the general elections. We shall dutifully study these reports and take into consideration the actionable recommendations in planning for future elections,” he said. He further said the commission in the next two months planned to engage with all stakeholders, beginning with its own officials at local government and state levels and representatives of ad hoc officials engaged for elections from presiding officers at polling unit level to collation and returning officers. “We shall then follow it up with consultations at the national level with political parties, the security agencies, CSOs, the media, development partners, traditional and religious organisations, the national and local peace committees and professional groups accredited to observe elections,” he said.  JUST IN: INEC commences review of 2019 polls Elections won’t be decided in INEC offices – Prof Yakubu Rerun polls hold in Kano, Benue, 4 others March 23 Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin