The National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) has insisted that all operators in the petroleum industry must comply with the regulations of the agency or face sanctions. The Director General of NOSDRA, Idris Musa, in a meeting yesterday in Abuja with the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA) and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), said the petroleum marketers needed to understand and comply with the regulations to be able to mitigate any issue arising from their activities. Musa said the agency, which had the responsibility to detect and respond to oil spillage in Nigeria, engaged the marketers out of the desire to ensure safety of the environment, lives and property in the course of oil spillage. He, however, said the meeting was not about revenue generation, but to ensuring that marketers complied with the regulations by ensuring their facilities were in good shape to avoid spillage which would contaminate underground water. The Executive Secretary of DAPPMA, Olufemi Adebayo Adewale, who decried multiple taxation by the government, said what NOSDRA was doing was being duplicated by federal and state ministries of environment. He pleaded with NOSDRA to carry out their activities in such a way that their businesses would not collapse due to over-regulation and taxation and urged them to synergise with Lagos and others to harmonise their regulations. Also, the Vice President of IPMAN, Abubakar Maigadi, said they were always scared of being taxed whenever government agencies beckoned on them. He, however, said he was impressed by NOSDRA’s enlightenment , saying, “We  can seat together to see how we can improve the environment, if possible involve us as members of NOSDRA so that together we can make the environment safe.” Defects in Oronsaye’s report Whither Nigeria’s  contingency plan for oil spills? NOSDRA gets facilities to detect oil spill Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin