A coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has laid the foundation for sound fiscal and financial system that would bring about rapid development in the country. They said this on Tuesday in Abuja during a roundtable with the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF). The roundtable themed, “Assessing the fiscal transparency measures of the Buhari-led administration towards public sector efficiency and national productivity”, was organised by Transparency Advocacy for Development Initiative (TADI). The convener of the coalition, Mr. Solomon Adodo, said that fiscal prudence, transparency and due process were key to determining the productivity or otherwise of an organisation whether government or private corporation and which is being entrenched by the Buhari administration. He listed the fiscal and accounting systems to include the TSA, the IPPIS, and the creation of an Efficiency Unity under the federal ministry of finance. “As a nation, we are aware that prior to the coming of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, our fiscal information and accounting system was in a quandary with its negative reverberating effects on our economy. “Howbeit, the incorruptible integrity posture and actions of Mr. President has engineered key reforms and strategic policy implementations that have altered for the better our funds management system. “Doubtless, this deft approach was a masterstroke that helped in propelling Nigeria out of recession and placing her on the path of growth within a short spate of time. “It has not escaped our notice that this astounding feat was achieved on the platform of self-sacrifice engineered by the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Alhaji Ahmed Idris, and his team,” Adodo said. He said that a great amount of the nation’s finances have been conserved and corruption significantly curbed through the innovative financial strategies deployed by this government under the watch of the AGF. He said this stands at variance with what some naysayers would want the general public to believe that nothing positive is being recorded in the good governance, transparency and anti-corruption drive of President Muhammadu Buhari. CSOs berate FG low score on open governance CSOs task Buhari on tax leakages CSOs admit complicity in anti-corruption lapses Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin