Airtel Nigeria has launched its 4G LTE in Imo state with a promise to improve network service and offers innovative solutions to empower the people of the state. The Managing Director of Airtel Nigeria, Segun Ogunsanya, disclosed this while unveiling its 4G LTE (Fourth Generation Long Term Evolution) service in the state. Represented by its Head of Corporate Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility, Emeka Opara, the managing director said the unveiling of the new network was just a formal notification as the people of the state have been enjoying the 4G service since. Ogunsanya said apart from total modernization of the Airtel Nigeria’s network infrastructure, the new service would also accelerate economic and commercial activities in the state. He said that with the first launch of the service in Ibadan, it has been extended to many cities in the country, stressing that it was a glowing testimony of the company’s commitment to partner and empower the people by creating more entrepreneurs. “4G comes with tons of benefits: it will accelerate economic and commercial activities and it will boost personal and professional productivity. “It will help in creating more entrepreneurs; it will offer the youth a big leverage to express their creativity and talents. Also speaking, the Regional Operations and Director, South, Airtel Nigeria, Dosumu Oladipo, said over 50 percent of the state had already been covered with its 4G service adding that it would be extended to other state in a short time. He said that Airtel network remained the pioneer and largest provider of 4G service in Nigeria and urged the people of Imo state to move over to the service as the SIM is free. He noted that to enjoy the 4G network, the users must ensure that they have a device that is 4G compliant, as well as upgrade their current SIM cards to Airtel 4G SIM through a SIM swap. Airtel’s 4G to cover 100 cities by March 2019 – CEO Airtel launches 4G service in Edo Broadband penetration rises to 33% by February – NCC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin