Residents of Kawo community in Kaduna State have killed a man, alleged to be a kidnapper, when he was attempting to abduct someone in the area. Our correspondent gathered that trouble started around 8am when residents of the area received information that some kidnappers, numbering three, attempted to abduct some people. The residents immediately blocked the roads leading in and out of the community, chased down the kidnappers and killing one of them in the process. It was also gathered that the police, upon receiving information that there was chaos in the area, mobilised to the area to disperse the mob. They killed one person identified as an orange seller and injured several others. A resident, Sani Dauda said, “I sighted a crowd from far and immediately rushed down. That is when I learnt that kidnappers visited the community and in the process, on person was killed while others were injured. They have been taken to the Kawo general hospital for treatment.” He added: “There is one kidnapper, who was arrested by the police after they saved him from the mob and that is why the protest is still one. They want the police to hand him over to them so that he does not come back to terrorise them after he is released by the police.” Daily Trust reports that a crowd gathered in Kawo area just by the Kawo bridge as early as 8.30am to protest the killing of an orange seller by a police stray bullet. Our correspondent further reports that it took the intervention of a combined team of soldiers and police men to tame the crowd which had set several tyres on fire, covering the area with black smoke. The police spokespersons, DSP Yakubu Sabo is yet to respond to the incident. States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits ‘Kidnappers still terrorizing us on Abuja-Kaduna road’ Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna residents cry out: Bandits, kidnappers keep attacking us Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin