This year is likely to see fewer rainfalls and early cessation according to the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), but the rain began early and have ceased for a while in some places across the country. This has left farmers with the dicey decision on whether to plant now or wait for the rains. Professor Yusuf Ahmed Sani is the Assistant Director, National Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He advised farmers to allow the rain to fully establish before planting their crops. The extension expert further enjoined farmers to seriously consider short and early maturing varieties based on the agro-ecological zones where they operate. This, he said will address the fear and concern of early cessation of rainfall in some parts of the country. Professor Sani also counseled farmers to use drought-tolerant varieties, which can survive the absence of rain for a particular period of time. In addition, he advised farmers to adopt a good land preparation technique that allows the soil to retain an excellent amount of moisture. In January, the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet) released the 2019 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction report, which indicated the amount, pattern and cessation of rain across the country. The report showed that 2019 will experience late onset of rainfall and early cessation of rainfall in most parts of the country, with the far north being the worst hit. However, “the 2019 forecast is a remarkable departure from the 2018 predictions but somewhat similar to 2017 as the year 2019 is anticipated to be an El Nino year, rainfall deficit with varying magnitude is expected for the most part of the country, especially northward,” said the Director-General NiMet, Prof. Sani Abubakar Mashi, during the presentation of the report highlights. This is expected to have an impact on the timing of the onset and cessation of the farming season. The shorter length of the season is expected with below normal rainfall amounts. However, climate-smart agriculture should be the watchword, he said. The DG said “the predicted 2019 onset of the growing season is likely to be delayed in most parts of the country. So far, states around the federal capital Territory and Abuja have already witnessed a significant amount of rain since April while the coastal region of the south-south has since March. The onset dates are expected to change as we move northwards with areas around Maiduguri, Sokoto, Katsina, Dutse, Potiskum, Kano and Nguru predicted to have onset from June 16th. Nimet predicted that the earliest cessation dates are expected to be from 29th September around the north-western parts of the country, which is why farmers are cautioned to take the cessation dates seriously across all the ecological zones. For example, most of the north is expected to witness cessation dates within October, while around the central parts of the country, the growing season is expected to end between late October and Mid-November 2019. Parts of the central and southern states are expected to experience the end of the season by mid-November, while along the coast; the season is expected to end by late December. If you are a farmer operating in most of the north, the south-east, Ikeja and Ijebu-Ode in the south-west you should expect to witness an earlier than normal end of the growing season, therefore, consider short or early maturing varieties. The farmers in most of the north central ecological zone areas of Benue, Nasarawa, Niger, Abuja, Plateau and other places in the east and southern states are expected to experience normal rain to the late end of the growing season. The important notice to farmers is that the NiMet rainfall prediction also shows that in 2019, the length of the growing season is expected to range from 109 days to 291 days. This means that crops that have less maturity duration should be considered. However, farmers in areas around Bida, Minna, Abuja, Makurdi and Ilorin are also predicted to have a normal length of the growing season. It is also anticipated that in 2019, the country is expected to have rainfall amounts between 300mm in the north to 2700mm in the south. Places in the extreme north of the states of Sokoto, Katsina, Yobe and Borno state are expected to have the least rainfall amounts within the range of 300-700mm. Farmers in places around Bauchi, Jigawa, Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Kebbi, Yobe and Borno states are likely to experience a severe dry spell in the month of June. The report estimated this to last between 10 to 22 days after the onset, spilling into July. Therefore farmers here should consider drought tolerant/early varieties to avoid losing their investments in the farms. However, moderate dry spell that may last 8 to 15 days is expected around Yelwa, Bida, Minna, Zaria, Funtua, Lafia, Bauchi, Abuja, Gombe, and Yola in June 2019. Thus, NiMet cautions that the dry spells could cause a severe crisis for crops so farmers could delay planting or plant drought-resistant varieties of crops. Farmers should be guided by the expected weather condition in the agro-ecological zones where they operate and follow the good agronomy practices that will give them good yield. They are also advised to visit relevant research institutes or universities and colleges of agriculture close to them for advice. These institutions also have good seeds or could recommend the ones that will yield good tonnage and put more money into the farmers’ pockets. Poor harvest fears over erratic rainfall NiMet predicts late onset, early cessation of rain in 2019 Poor harvest looms as irregular rainfall continues Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin