Arewa Youth Political Vanguard, a pressure group on Tuesday called on Senators Ali Ndume and Danjuma Goje not to ruin the opportunity of producing the Senate President zoned to the North East. Alhaji Aminu Tutare, National Chairman of the vanguard stated this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Damaturu. “This is an opportunity for the North East to produce the next senate president, Sen. Ahmad Lawan posses more credible qualifications for the office,” he said. According to the chairman, Lawan who was endorsed by the party and presidency, needs the support of other senators especially those from the North East. “We do not need multiple aspirations to scuttle this opportunity. “All senators cutting across all political parties from the North and, especially those from the North East, should support Lawan to provide a vibrant leadership that will support President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in handling the security challenges in the North and Nigeria generally. “The president needs the support of the legislature to effectively fight the security challenge and any contrary decision, will distract government’s attention and, sabotage the people of the North. “At this moment, the Executive needs the support of the legislature and we cannot afford to waste another opportunity of making Nigeria work under the Buhari administration,” he said. Aminu said the association has been going round the Northern states and talking to elders and political leaders on the need to have a united front in handling the socio-economic and security challenges facing the region. “We are calling on the two senators to forfeit their personal aspirations for our collective interests and to provide the needed support for government to find solutions to the problems of the North and Nigeria,” he said.(NAN) Ninth Assembly: APC recommends Lawan for Senate Presidency Senate Presidency: Goje’s imminent entry brings new twist JUST IN: Northeast Forum, others endorse Goje for Senate President, write Oshiomhole Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin