An Ogba Chief Magistrate court, Lagos, has ordered that a teenage boy, Joseph Esan, be remanded in a juvenile home for allegedly having canal knowledge of a five year-old girl. The teenager who was dragged before the court on a two count-charge of defilement and assault, was allegedly caught having sex with his neighbour’s daughter on April7, 2019 at Ashilo Street,  Alagbado area of Lagos. The Police said that the accused allegedly lured the girl into his parents’ apartment when they were not around and defiled her before allowing her to go. The Police prosecutor also said that the girl later narrated her ordeal to her parents, stating how she was allegedly molested by the accused when they were not around. The Police said that the girl was taken to hospital for test after the accused denied having anything to do with the girl. “My Lord, the medical result showed that the little girl had been abused” the police said. The prosecutor, Supol Benson Emerhi, said that the denial promoted the girl’s parents to invite the Police adding that the accused was arrested and taken to the station. He said that the case was later transferred to the Gender section of the State Command, Ikeja, for thorough investigations. According to him, the case was charged to court on the order of the State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, who frowned at the increasing rate of cases of defilement across the country and the need for the protection of the rights of little girls who are vulnerable to such treatments. The court did not take the plea of the accused as he was ordered to be remanded in prison custody without an option of bail. That was after the prosecutor, Supol Benson Emerhi, had asked the court to grant an order for the file to be sent to the Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice. Thus, the Presiding Magistrate, Mrs. O. Sule-Amzat, directed the prosecutor to duplicate the file and send to DPP. The matter was adjourned to June 13, 2019, when the court is expected to receive the DPP’s report.   Man remanded for fondling with girl’s breast When teachers prey on their students Teenager remanded for allegedly defiling 2 sisters Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin