Authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) have demolished Caramelo, a popular nightclub in Utako District of Abuja. As early as 7:00 am on Monday morning, the Coordinator Abuja Metropolitan Management Council AMMC) Umar Shuaibu led the director, Department of Development Control, Mukhtar Galadima, to demolish the nightclub. The coordinator said the demolition exercise was carried out after complaints from residents in the neighborhood about noise pollution from the nightclub. He also explained that the plot which was originally allocated to one Mr Musa Hassan in 2005 for the purpose of developing a district health facility was finally revoked by the FCT minister due to violations of its land use. Shuaibu added that the conversion of use from clinic to lounge created indiscriminate nuisances to the neighborhood and violated the FCTA’s land use regulations. City News gathered that the authorities acted after a-48- hours quit notice they served the management of the club on Friday had expired. The development control bulldozer pulled down the one storey building, crushing every piece of property in the once bubbling nightclub. Caramelo Managing Director, Max Eze, who was shocked watching helplessly as the bulldozer mauled his investment, said “it is unfortunate because I was served quit notice by the FCT administration on Friday evening and today, just Monday, the building is pulled down. “They didn’t even give me time to pack my property which has been destroyed together with the building.  I have lost over N100 million in just one day. I also have over 100 staff who work in the club and this is where they also get their salaries but with this, they are now rendered jobless,” he said. When asked what will be his next step from here, Eze said “The matter is government issue and they have made their decisions so I will not mention what will be my next line of action because I also pay heavily for this property on tax and other charges to the Abuja Municipal Area Council AMAC) which I have all receipts to back my claims,” he said. At a press briefing to justify government’s action the coordinator said the developer failed to revert to the original for which the plot was allocated. Umar also said the Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has approved the serving of final contravention letters to Ibiza club located at Port Harcourt Street, Garki, as according to him, the club too had been given two weeks to revert to its designated use or risk appropriate sanctions. The FCTA authorities had repeatedly raided the club in the past one year, arresting strip dancers.   FCTA demolishes nightclubs in Gwarimpa FCTA raids night clubs arrests 34 strippers Noise Pollution: FCTA to remove lounges, night clubs from residential areas Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin