The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has commended Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, for embarking on massive infrastructural drive which positively changed the landscape, saying the governor’s name has already been written in gold in the history of the state and can never be altered by anybody. Speaking while presenting a letter of appreciation to the governor during a Ramadan Tafsir/Iftar and special prayer organised by the State Government to mark the official commencement of the Muslim fasting month, Director of MURIC, Professor Ishaq Akintola, described Governor Ambode as a top performer whose achievements are indelible. Akintola, a renowned Islamic scholar, said aside the massive infrastructural drive, the governor also prioritized welfare of Muslims and worked hard to enhance peaceful co-existence and harmonious relationship among religious groups in the State. “Quran Chapter 14 verse 7 says if you show appreciation, we would give you even much more. This is what we have come to do to you  (Governor Ambode) today sir. We want to appreciate you; you are a performer and numero uno. We have seen action in Lagos State. Jesus healed 10 lepers in the book of Luke Chapter 17 verse 17 and only one came back. Jesus now asked were not 10 cleaned; where are the nine? Muslims of Lagos State appreciate you sir and you will never ask where are those Muslims because we are here. We love you, we appreciate you, we value you. You are a jewel of inestimable value. Is it the infrastructure that you have developed in Lagos State? Is it the gentlemanly attitude that we all have seen in you?” He particularly commended Governor Ambode for setting up the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) in the State and going further to decentralize the activities of the Council in all the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), just as he commended the Governor for prompt payment of workers salary.  MURIC accuses Gov Fayemi of deceiving, marginalizing Muslims Book Title: Voice of MURIC,… Lagos has enjoyed religious harmony so far – Ambode Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin