The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has stated that the priority of the All Progressives Congress, APC’s administration is the welfare of the common man. He disclosed this in Bauchi Saturday at the commissioning of the Bauchi State Health Contributory Scheme (BSHCS) and the Bauchi Health Trust Fund offices and other projects in the state. The vice president, who was on a one day working visit to the state, also commissioned a rural electrification project executed by Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar at a village in Burra district of Ningi emirate, Ningi local area. He also commissioned a soap and groundnut production plant. Speaking on the health schemes introduced by the Bauchi State government, Professor Osinbajo described it as historic, saying it will complement federal government’s effort of providing quality healthcare to Nigerians. He added that, President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to the welfare of ordinary Nigerians which prompted the introduction of the Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) to ameliorate the challenges of poverty and unemployment. “our administration’s priority is the welfare of the common man. President Buhari has always been concerned about the poor and how the government will make his life better,” he said. The Vice President commended the people of Bauchi State for embracing the Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) components in the state. In his address, Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar said that the scheme was introduced to bridge the gap in access to quality healthcare by citizens of the state. According to him, the scheme will be financed through certain percentage from the State Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), Contract Tax, Local government allocation and other sources. Osinbajo visits Bauchi today to commission projects "We'll use Nigeria's money for all Nigerians” – Osinbajo Sallah: Osinbajo says FG is focused on eradicating poverty Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin