As part of activities marking the Fifth United Nations Global Road Safety Week, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) on Thursday, in Abuja, signed a pact with a nongovernmental organisation, Kwapda’as Road Safety Demand (KRSD). KRSD founded by Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem is in memory of Kwapda’as Sampson Dongban who was killed by unknown motorist in Jos, Plateau State over seven years ago. The theme of this year’s week is “Leadership for Road Safety”. KRSD demands that FRSC takes leadership in road safety and improve enforcement of traffic laws around schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Highpoint was signing of the document bearing the two demands jointly by the FRSC Sector Commander, Corps Commander Wobin Gora and a board member of KRSD, Mr Ben Atonko. Gora was represented by the command’s second-in-command, Deputy Corps Commander SA Ochi. Speaking before signing the pact, the sector commander stated that the command had never rested on its oars. He explained, “We carry out studies. Where there’re deficiencies on road furniture, we make recommendations to government. “A lot has been done on school signs, especially public schools. Traffic lights that were bad have been fixed. “With these demands, more will be done in the area of school for safety of schoolchildren.” Gora said FCT is covered by seven Zebra locations, so it takes less than 10 minutes for men of FRSC to arrive a scene of crash. “We’re running at a very high speed as far as safety of lives in FCT is concerned,” he maintained, adding that patrol activities and traffic control are 24 hours . Gora assured the public that those who hit pedestrians and run away would henceforth be apprehended. He stressed, “Those that got away with those acts aren’t likely to get away today. “Technology is improving, our work is improving. If you knock down someone, you won’t get away with it.” Speaking earlier, the Programme Cordinator of KRSD, Ayomide Akinpelu stated that KRSD’s demands followed a data collation exercise the NGO did in Abuja last year. According to Akinpelu, “We noticed that there’re not adequate road signs. Politicians and churches cover up the available ones with posters. “We demand improved enforcement of road traffic laws.” He charged everyone to speak out and save lives because if one has not directly suffered road traffic crash, someone they know might have. The event which started with a walk from the Novare Mall in Wuse Zone 5 ended at the FRSC sector command in Zone 7, Abuja. The Fifth United Nations Global Road Safety Week (from 6-12 May 2019) focuses on leadership for road safety.  KRSD 4th annual international Conference in Abuja 357 youths enter FRSC essay competition FCTA to promote safety measures around schools Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin