The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Action Democratic Congress (ADC) has expelled its National Secretary, Dr James Okoroma, together with 16 other party officers that include state party chairmen. The ADC National Chairman Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani and new National Secretary Dr Steve Uwazie announced the expulsion in a communique jointly signed and issued yesterday in Abuja at a press conference after Friday’s NEC meeting. Dr Uwazie, who read the communique, said they were expelled from the party as a result of anti-party activities, insubordination and actions causing disaffection and division among members in compliance with Article 52.1 of the ADP constitution. Other officers expelled were Engr. Esther Oche, Chief Iboro lge-Edaba, Temitope Salami, Prince Edobor Oghosa, Alhaji Lateef Arowosaye, Amb. Andrew Nanyah Daman, Dr Theophilus Ezeala, Dr Ikponwen Don Osaze, Dr Ehigbor Johnson, Dennis Richard Okatubo, Victoria Tare Goodluck, Dahiru Yusuf Yabo, Ibrahim Mohammed Saulawa, Muhammad A. Ghali, Alh. Grema Musa, and Barr. James Chukwunweaku Ude. The NEC meeting also resolved to adopt all legal means retrieve the party’s Toyota Sienna vehicle given to Dr Okoroma, the former National Secretary as official car in his capacity as Director-General of the YY Sani Presidential Campaign Council and all other party properties in possession of any other person. The ADP also agreed to invite Sen. Roland Owie, a leader of the party from the South South, to appear before the Disciplinary Committee to explain his alleged involvement in pitching some State chapters against the leadership contrary to the Constitution. The meeting also asked the Disciplinary Committee of the party at the National level to invite all absentees at the NEC meeting to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for failing to attend. The meeting, which also resolved that appointments of all the new National Working Committee (NWC) members be upheld pending the ratification of their portfolios, added that all Standing Committees be dissolved and new ones reconstituted. The ADP NEC also delegated the following responsibilities to the NWC: that subject to the provision of the Party Constitution, restructure and submit to INEC a new interim structure and distribution of the Executive positions of the Party at all levels. YY Sani: I remain ADP nat’l chair Ekiti guber: ADP candidate, Segun Adewale, releases 7-point agenda Ahead of 2019, new parties yet to establish presence in states Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin