MTN Nigeria Communications Plc (MTN Nigeria) on Thursday announced its unaudited results for the quarter ended March 31. The Chief Executive Officer of MTN, Mr Ferdi Moolman said that in 2019, MTN Nigeria adopted the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS)16 accounting standards in line with global best practice and adjustments are reflected in the results below. He listed the highlights as contained in the statement as Service revenue increased by 13.4 per cent; Voice revenue increased by 12.7 per cent; Data revenue increased by 32.4 per cent; Digital revenue decreased by 68.0 per cent; Fintech revenue increased by 22.9 per cent. Others are EBITDA margin increased by 11.5pp to 53.3 per cent (IAS 17: 44.2 per cent); and Mobile subscribers increased by 2.1 million to 60.3 million. “Our first quarter performance was in line with expectations, as service revenue remained resilient with double-digit growth on the back of improvements in voice and data revenues. “We connected a further 2.1 million people to our network, providing them access to worldwide communication services, while an additional 1.7 million people are able to access the possibilities that the internet provides. “This growth is built on our focus on customer-centric delivery and in particular on improved customer retention, our continuous focus on value for money propositions and further network roll-out and enhancement. “Q1 2019 saw a significant increase in our capital expenditure programme, with a focus on LTE services, where we rolled out 1,188 sites across our key focus cities. “In addition, the successful transfer of our 800MHz spectrum from Visafone to MTN Nigeria will further enable improvements in network coverage and service quality,’’ he said. “We have made significant progress to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) following the conversion of MTN Nigeria to a public company and the successful registration of our ordinary shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),’’ he said. According to him, we are now engaging with the NSE to complete the listing process. MTN says listing plans plagued by CBN, AGF issues MTN subscribers drop, data revenue grows MTN returns to strong profit after FG fine Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin