Dr. Abba Armiya’u Ibrahim is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Proserve Energy Services Limited. His firm has won a 10-year concession to deploy 750 kilowatts (KW) hybrid and grid-connected solar technology solution that will provide uninterrupted power supply to the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing headquarters (Power House) in Abuja. In this interview, Dr. Ibrahim speaks about this innovation and how replicating it across public, commercial and industrial buildings and facilities can boost economic development in Nigeria.  Your firm is in the process of deploying a grid-connected solar power system at the Power House. What does this entail? We are privileged to be undertaking this pilot concession of a hybrid solar project for the Power House, headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. It is a model that has been developed by the ministry to showcase a win-win for all the stakeholders involved in the power supply value chain. This model falls within what is termed Commercial and Industrial (C&I) Phototoltaic (PV) solar hybrid, and the beauty of it is in the optimised efficiency of the system, where excess power is sent to the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) network via a net metering platform. The ministry conceived the project and it was graciously approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in October, 2018. We are working hard together with the team at the ministry under the honourable minister’s lead to achieve financial close very soon, with the target of achieving Commercial Operation Date (COD) before the end of 2019. How will this project impact on the power supply experience at the ministry? It is a unique and optimised solution, designed specifically for the Power House, that is enabled by technology that will provide high quality uninterrupted power supply to the building for 24 hours a day throughout the year. It is a 750KW peak day time and 75KW peak night time system and it is a hybrid that encompasses a combination of PV solar, batteries, diesel generator and power from the grid. Essentially, power will be taken from the grid when needed and will be pushed to the grid when there is excess from the system. Example, on weekends and during public holidays, the solar panels on the roof tops and car ports will still be generating electricity with the offices obviously shut, thus creating excess power. How ready is AEDC to receive the excess power deployed to the grid from this plant? We signed a 10-year tripartite Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the ministry and AEDC as signatories. There is also a 10-year concession agreement under the supervision of Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC). It is not a novelty, as this has been deployed in other parts of the world, but it is the first net metering technology to be tested here. We are also working closely with both the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and AEDC to learn from the project and provide some insights for NERC to develop a regulatory framework that will ease replication. The system has been optimised to determine intelligently when to take power from the solar modules, the battery storage, the grid or when to take power from the generator. It is a green project and it minimises as much as possible power sourced from the generator; that is renewable energy dominant and economically efficient. We look forward to replicating this in as many locations both in the public and private sectors. Some industries have adopted it mainly as a captive source, commercial banks have also been quick to see the benefits of this technology due to its cost-saving potential and reliability. What is the timeline for the delivery of this project? Once we achieve the financial close, the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) has committed to deploying this project within six months. It is going to be a fast project, and that is what makes it highly replicable, and we look forward to delivering as many of this both for the public and private sector clients. We are looking forward to deploying this system as we have very strong and competent team members. Our EPC contractor, a German company, assured us that the timeline within which we agreed to construct and deploy this project is feasible and on course to deliver the project. How would this project contribute to the Federal Government’s job creation effort? As seen in many countries around the world, renewable energy technology has a huge potential for creating new jobs in our economy, new skills will be developed, industries and other service providers will spring up. I am confident that the power sector and the economy will stand to benefit with the adoption of renewable energy technology in Nigeria. The myth about costs of solar power has been busted with the Levelised Cost of Electricity (LCOE) for solar power generation which is as competitive today as with the thermal power plants, and is far cheaper than diesel generator. My prediction is that we are in a period where we are going to see a lot of renewable energy from solar being harnessed and brought into the overall energy mix in Nigeria. As for now, we are heavily skewed towards thermal power generation sources. Only recently, we had shortage of gas supply to the thermal plants, these situations can be forestalled if we had a balanced energy mix from various generation sources, especially renewable energy. How compliant is the firm with the local content policy in deploying this project? Due to the technology intense nature of not only renewable energy, but the entire power sector, we are going to depend mostly on imported equipment and materials in the short to medium terms. But the opportunity exists in the renewable energy space. We can leap-frog with the right mix of policies and the continuous focus by the present administration on ease of doing business and other fiscal incentives that will attract and promote investment in Nigeria. The local content policy will be leveraged upon by Proserve Energy to develop local skills and acquire technology as rapidly as possible. We came together with our foreign partners and went through a competitive tender process and thankfully won the bid and we are happy to be here and part of this historic project that will be breaking new grounds; that will not only contribute its own local content quota, but will also support Nigeria’s environmental commitment for the COP21. Multiples of this kind of project when they come to fruition can really add so much value to our dear country, and that remains our focus in Proserve Energy. All the stakeholders are quite enthusiastic in seeing that this project is successful. We must thank ICRC for their hard work to see this project comes to fruition, the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, NERC and AEDC. A very special thanks to the FEC under President Muhammadu Buhari, that graciously approved the project as presented by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola. Special thanks also goes to the Minister of State, Mustapha Baba Shehuri, the Permanent Secretary, Mr. Loius Edozien, the DG of ICRC, Mr. Chidi Izuwah, and their entire teams. We look forward to seeing you on the commissioning day. Proserve to build $2.5m solar plant for FG FG concessions 750kw solar power to Proserve Energy With solar power, Torankawa community glows after 5yr blackout Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin