It was drama at the Agege customary court in Lagos on Tuesday when a 90-year-old pastor, Tunde Gabi, and his wife, Abosede, 54, engaged each other in a shouting match during recess over ownership of a bed. Gabi had filed a divorce petition against Abosedealleging she was always terrorising him. At the last hearing of the matter, the court had agreed the respondent could move her belongings out of the pastor’s home but should be escorted there by the bailiff, a lawyer and the petitioner’s son to take a record of her belongings she had moved out of the house and those stillremaining there. On Tuesday, Gabi was furious in court when he saw that Abosede had listed a bed as one of her possessions in his apartment. He consequently challenged her and the couplewent into an altercation. Gabi had earlier paid Abosede, in agreement with the court’s order, the sum of N300,000as compensation for stress she claimed shewent through in the 20-year-old marriage. The petitioner was then given a time frame of one month, from May 30,2019, to pay Abosede the balance of N150,000,when she would be free to move her belongings out of his house. She had also agreed before the court to employ only people known to the petitioner to move her belongings out, and to give him a 48- hour notice before doing so. But the court learnt she had violated the notice agreement as she had moved out some of her belongings without informing him at all. “He has been sprinkling strange water and salt every morning and night around the compound since we started coming to the court. I told my family members about it and they told me not to inform him before taking my belongings out of the house, for my own safety,” she told the court in defence of her action against the agreement made in court. But Gabi responded, “She terrorizes me; even up to this morning she still bullied me. Sheis never orderly. It has been 20 years of hell and I want to get out of it immediately,” he said. The court adjourned the case till Tuesday May 14, 2019 for judgment.  79-yr-old pastor seeks divorce over threat to life How my husband bewitched me for 8 years - Wife tells court My wife curses me always with her private part, Pastor tells court Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin