The SERVICOM Office at the Presidency has said the successes of the organisation are a demonstration of the commitment of the present administration to deliver the best service deliveries to the citizenry. The National Coordinator/CEO, SERVICOM Office, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli, disclosed this on Monday in Abuja when she led the management team of the organisation on an advocacy visit to the corporate headquarters of Media Trust Limited, Publishers of Daily Trust titles and Aminiya. According to her, the regulatory agencies have the mandate and which are broken down into standards and measurable timelines and there are penalties contained in their conditionality. “For instance, we have statutory and regulatory bodies that deal with enforcement and compliance. What SERVICOM does is to engage this people and ask them to write their service charter and we begin to monitor the extent of the regulatory activities and successes,” Akajemeli said. She observed that there are knowledge gaps that needed to be bridged on the mandates and activities of SERVICOM. “The core thing we do is reporting performance, reporting the effectiveness of government to the people in terms of service delivery to the people. “All the MDAs are service providers and the government must be connected to the people, and their lives can only be touched by the kind of service being rendered to the people,” she said. She also said that since the federal government established the SERVICOM in March 2004, it has been carrying out its saddled responsibility of promoting effective and efficient service delivery to ensure customer satisfaction. She said, “It is a social contract between the Federal Government of Nigeria and its people and gives Nigerians the right to demand good services as contained in Service Charters of the MDAs. She listed lack of enabling law, paucity of funds and manpower among the critical challenges facing the organisation. She said the focus of the federal government on effective and efficient use of public resources, proper financial management, accountability and fiscal prudence is closely related to the SERVICOM principles which are hinged on the re-orientation of public servants to be committed, responsible and accountable while serving the public. “The SERVICOM Office conducts periodic evaluation of the quality of services delivered to citizens and reports its findings to the Federal Executive Council through the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF),” she added. She listed the achievements of the organisation to include: SERVICOM structure presence in all MDAs; Quality Assurance Inspections using the SERVICOM Index in over 230 service windows; and capacity building and enhancement of over 11,200 public servants to deliver satisfactory services. SERVICOM charges environment  ministry SERVICOM warns NAFDAC against use of consultants SERVICOM to partner ICPC on anti-graft fight Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin