The Chairman of South South Governors’ Forum and governor of Bayelsa State, Henry Seriake Dickson, has congratulated his Plateau State counterpart, Simon Lalong, on his emergence as the new chairman of the Northern Governors Forum (NGF). Dickson, in a statement by the state’s Commissioner for Information, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, on Tuesday said Lalong was taking over as head of the regional governors’ forum at a time that the country was faced with severe challenges and should be supported by all. The governor, who lamented that the country was so divided along political, religious and ethnic lines, also called on Lalong to work hard to build bridges of unity, promote peace and ensure inclusiveness. He said that as Chairman of the South-South Governors Forum, Lalong should consider in him a willing partner to work for a united, peaceful and prosperous Nigeria, which will serve as the pride of the future generations. He promised to interact with his Plateau state counterpart on how to build national consensus on the critical issue of restructuring. He stressed that the support of every part of the country particularly the North was not only essential but indispensable, adding that he would not bow out of his determination to get leaders across party lines to ensure that the country was rescued. He said: “Let me congratulate my brother Governor, Simon Lalong on his emergence as chairman of the Northern Governors Forum. I have no doubt in his capacity to deliver on the mandate. “I urge him to accept my hand of friendship as chairman of the South-South Governors  Forum, so that we can work together and achieve a common goal. What we need critically at this moment in our country is peace and unity. “We have been so divided along political, religious and ethnic lines. But, I believe that we can correct that for the sake of our country. So, I call for robust support and solidarity for him, especially among his colleagues in the forum.” Lalong emerges NGF chairman Simon Lalong emerges as Chairman of Northern Governors Forum Bauchi South by-election: Four APC governors in Bauchi to support candidate Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin