The All Progressives Congress caucus in the House of Representatives has faulted Rep. Gudaji Kazaure (APC-Jigawa) on the reappointment of the Central Bank Governor (CBN) Mr Godwin Emefiele. At a news briefing on Thursday in Abuja, the spokesman of the group, Rep. Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC-Kano) said that Kazaure’s stand on the matter does not reflect the position of the group. Kazaure had urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reverse the reappointment of Emefiele as Governor of CBN, saying that the Buhari Support Group, Buhari Campaign Organisation and the Buhari Die Hard Group were not happy with the reappointment. He also claimed that Emefiele has not perform well in office as Governor of the apex bank as naira exchange rate to a dollar has risen drastically from N180 to N360 under his watch. But, Jibrin said the leadership of the caucus dissociate itself from Kazaure’s stand. The spokesman said that APC caucus completely support the reappointment of Emefiele. “We stand by the President, we support that appointment and we are pretty sure that because of the good works Emefiele has done in the last four years, he deserves reappointment. “We also commend the Senate for confirming the CBN Governor, this shows that the decision of President is the right one,” he said. Jibrin said by all the indices that can be used to the rate the performance of a CBN Governor, Emefiele has done credibly well. “The diversification of our economy through agriculture, the massive rice production, empowering local farmers, for the first time in so many years, we see massive profit being declared by farmers,” he said. Jibrin said the expansion of the banking sector and the country’s quick recovery from recession speak of the good work of Emefiele. The spokesman said the caucus congratulate Emefiele, urging him to remain focus and continue with the good work.
Jibrin said Kazaure took a joke too far and that the caucus would continue to engage and consult with him.(NAN) CBN: Reps back Emefiele's confirmation Reps ask Buhari to reverse Emefiele's reappointment CLO coalition lauds Emefiele’s reappointment Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin