Delta State Governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa has explained his decision to set up a Transition Committee for his second term in office, was borne from the need for an independent assessment of his administration’s performance so far. Receiving the report of the 20-man committee which was presented in volumes by its Chairman, Prof. Sam Oyovbaire on Friday in Asaba, the governor said the committee’s report would spur his next tenure to be more committed and fruitful to the people of the state According to the governor, “Some persons have asked me why we are setting up transition committee bearing in mind that I am continuing as Governor till 2023 and I have told them that the committee need to assess what we did in the first tenure independently and advise us on what to do in the areas we need to improve on and also, applaud us in the areas we need to sustain because, I will like to be remembered at the end of my tenure as a Governor who has done very well.“ “I believe that most of the things we did in the first tenure were as a result of the implementation of the report of the transition committee which we acted on and as such, the report of this committee will be very useful to us as we work for a stronger Delta in the next four years”, Governor Okowa reflected. He thanked members of the committee for their commitment to the affairs of the state and speedy delivery of the report, “adding that the committee and its members delivered on the report within six weeks of inauguration. Prof. Oyovbaire, while presenting the report, commended Governor Okowa for setting up the transition committee, disclosing that the committee considered a lot of issues before arriving at the report. The chairman urged the governor to make the report available to Ministries, Departments and Agencies when approved to ensure synergy in the delivery of democratic dividends to the benefits of Deltans. Why I will not set up transition committees –  Okowa 2019: Nigeria's integrity hinges on credible elections - Okowa Abolish death sentence, reform the prisons system - Okowa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin