The PDP has asked the presidency to come clear on the corruption allegation it opened on the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa. The PDP in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said since the Buhari Presidency had alluded to issues of corruption against Justice Bulkachuwa, contrary to issues raised in the PDP petition bothering on bias, it behoved on the presidency and the APC to make public the corruption issues they alluded to. The party said the presidency should also take a step further by pursuing these issues of alleged corruption just as it did in the case of corruption allegations against the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, rather than “wickedly dragging our party into issues that have no bearing” with the PDP. “Now that the presidency has informed the whole nation that Justice Bulkachuwa has issues of corruption, we challenge it to do the needful rather than engaging in shadow-boxing against our party. “Moreover, in the face of corruption allegations, as has now been exposed by the presidency, the burden still lies on the same presidency to come clean. “In doing that, the presidency will be ranching on its established course, having hit the records of harassing and intimidating judicial officials; abuse of court processes and disregard for court orders. “Our party holds that this Buhari Presidency’s fresh allegation of corruption now places a huge moral burden on Justice Bulkachuwa, particularly in her capacity as the President of the Court of Appeal.” “This is because, a judicial officer of such high standing must not only be above board, but be seen to be above board at all times. “Nevertheless, the PDP restates our demand for Justice Bulkachuwa to recuse herself from the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, following the manifest bias in her opening address ‘that no matter how well the election is conducted, there are bound to be complaints’,” the PDP said. “This is in addition to the fact that her husband, Hon. Adamu Mohammed Bulkachuwa, is a frontline leader of the APC, which is a party in our case before the tribunal,” the statement further read. Bulkachuwa: Presidency slams PDP, says judges intimidation won’t augur well APC, PDP trade words over CJN Address issues raised by OBJ, PDP group tells Jonathan Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin