The Federal Government is planning to establish a Free Trade Zone (FTZ) and an industrial hub within the Kaduna Inland Dry Port corridor as cargo delivery by rail commences at the dry port. The Executive Secretary (ES) Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Mr. Hassan Bello gave the indication yesterday at the ceremony to mark the commencement of cargo delivery by rail at the Kaduna Dry Port, or inland container deport. He said to make this happen, the FG is partnering the Kaduna state government and relevant stakeholders’, in wooing private investors to the dry port. “It is important that the dry port is not just a transportation center but a hub of economic activities, we need to have so many facilities, like stores, refrigerated warehouses, consolidation centers, factories especially for packaging which is a problem for export,” Mr. Bello said. On efforts being made to bring investors to Kaduna, he said the Council is in preliminary discussion with Commonwealth Enterprise and Investment Council in London as the FG wants to bring them to Kaduna to bring value to the dry port. He also said the Council is discussing with relevant authorities to have a free trade zone (FTZ) within the Kaduna dry port. Currently, the dry port receives at least 200 containers monthly from Lagos but this capacity will shoot up with the train cargo delivery operations. He also noted that the trains will move containers at least twice a week with the capability of moving some 24 containers on each trip at not more than 50 percent of the cost required to truck containers from Lagos to Kaduna. Currently, it costs between N700,000 to N1.5m to transport 24 containers, depending on the cargo and logistics company.  FG flags off cargo delivery by rail to Kaduna dry port today FG to inaugurate rail cargo delivery in Kaduna Inland Dry Port Cargo delivery by rail to Kaduna dry port starts Tuesday Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin