The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has berated what it termed the self-styled leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for allegedly hauling insults against the PDP to curry political relevance, ostensibly for his “selfish pecuniary interests.” The PDP, in a statement on Tuesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said by travelling to faraway Mecca, at this Ramadan period, just to meet President Muhammadu Buhari and engage in “gossips, invectives and diatribes” against the PDP, Asiwaju Tinubu has further demonstrated that he has nothing to offer towards the development of the nation. The PDP said no amount of gossips would stop the party from reclaiming its “stolen” presidential mandate at the tribunal. “It is atrocious that at the time other leaders are in the Holy Land offering prayers and supplications for our nation, Asiwaju Tinubu is in Mecca for photo-ops, playing dirty politics and hauling insults at other Nigerians just to curry relevance before President Buhari. “The party notes that nothing but sheer hypocrisy would push Asiwaju Tinubu to engage in unholy praises of a failed administration in a desperation to avert the purported threats by certain agents of the Buhari Presidency to expose him. “This is the same Asiwaju Tinubu, who, in January 2018, at the 15th Annual Daily Trust Dialogue, berated the Buhari administration for its nepotism, incompetence, corrupt oil subsidy regime; blaming it for the high-level poverty in our country and counselled Nigerians to be guided by their conscience in electing leaders in the 2019 general elections. “Asiwaju, in criticizing the Buhari administration held rightly that ‘too much political and economic power resides in the hands of too few. This result in a society described by too much of unemployment, inadequate infrastructure, too little food, yet too much poverty.’ “He then added correctly that under President Buhari, ‘rather than becoming a joyous nation, Nigeria has become a cruel playground where the fears and concerns of the average person get exploited but their interests never get promoted. “The party cautioned Asiwaju Tinubu to call himself to order, particularly as Nigerians, including members of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), have seen through his power-grabbing antics and are now determined to give him the back seat treatment,” the PDP said. 2015: Scramble for South-West puts Tinubu on the spot PDP, Tinubu trade words over Atiku comment Asiwaju and the National Assembly leadership crisis Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin