Mr David Ibidapo, an economic and financial analyst, says that signing of the 2019 Appropriation Bill into law will bring about an improvement in the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the second quarter. He said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. According to Ibidapo, it will bring about increased spending and economic activities in the country will improve. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, signed the 2019 appropriation bill of N8.92 trillion into law, adding that adjustments to the budget by the National Assembly may affect its smooth implementation. The budget had an addition of about N90 billion to the N8.83 trillion he submitted to the legislature in November 2018. Ibidapo said the signing of the budget would also provide a policy direction for investors as we;; as boost their confidence in the stock market because investors always need a direction to be able to invest. Speaking on the concerns raised by Buhari over the additional N90 billion that was added to the budget, he said the president would have to work out how to implement the budget, and actualise the minimum wage that was recently signed into law. He added that the Federal Government would be spending a huge amount of money to actualise the minimum wage, not forgetting that meeting the revenue target for the country was still an issue. “The only way he can successfully implement the budget and actualise the minimum wage is to block leakages by removing things that are not necessary like oil subsidy. “If oil subsidy is removed, it will be a huge relief for the government. “In every way, the government should also try to boost revenue and if that happens, it will lead to more economic activities that would spur the growth of the nation’s economy.’’ How 2019 budget can shore up investors’ confidence — Experts, NSE, LCCI JUST IN: Buhari signs 2019 Budget into law Textile imports enough to fund budget deficit - Economist Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin