The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has issued Certificate of Return to Mohammed Shamsuddeen Dambazau as the House of Representatives member-elect for Sumaila/Takai Federal Constituency in Kano State. INEC had earlier issued the certificate to AbdulRahman Sulaiman Kawu Sumaila who was adjudged to be the flag bearer of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in the election. But Dambazau, son of the Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau, sued INEC, APC and Sumaila, challenging the recognition of the later as the APC House of Representatives candidate for Sumaila/Takai federal constituency. He contended that Sumaila never participated at the House of Representatives primary election of the APC in the Federal Constituency. And on April 18, the Federal High Court, sitting in Kano, disqualified Sumaila – a former Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly House of Representatives Matters- as the duly elected Member of the House of Representatives on the platform of the APC in the February 23, 2019, general elections. The court also ordered INEC to recognise Dambazau as the duly elected House of Representatives member, representing Sumaila/Takai federal constituency. Issuing the Certificate of Return on Monday, INEC National Commissioner, Amina Zakari said the issuance of the certificate was on the order of the court which the body obeys. “INEC is a law abiding organization and respects the rule of law, hence the issuance of the certificate to Alhaji Muhammed Shamsuddeen,” said Amina Zakari. Court disqualifies Kawu Sumaila as Rep-elect Witness testifies against Buhari's ex-aide candidature Court fixes Feb 12 for Kawu’s eligibility for Reps from Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin