The Wife of the Kaduna State Governor, Hadiza el-Rufai, has advocated for at least 50 per cent slot for women as the next political dispensation sets in. Mrs. El-Rufai said although most of the positions held by women were through appointment, but that there was need for them to have more opportunities considering their numerical strength and contributions to electoral victories. Speaking at a farewell luncheon organised in honour of the outgoing female political appointees of Gov. Nasiru el-Rufai, she said although the programme was tagged “farewell luncheon”, there was the likelihood that most of the women would be reappointed because of their performance in office. “Even though women are appointed in positions of power, we still need more women. When you look at the population ratio of men and women in Nigeria; it is basically like 50-50. So, I do not see any reason why we will not have 50 per cent representation; that is what we should aim for,” she said. The governor’s wife thanked the women who served the government, saying they had made their generation very proud. “When you give a woman a chance, she can excel, but when the woman lacks the opportunity, her capability is hidden,” she added. She, therefore, called on women to always cooperate with one another so as to achieve greater successes. “We should be supportive of each other, mentor one another so that women would be represented in the scheme of affairs of the country,” she stressed. Hajiya Hafsat Baba, the outgoing Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, expressed appreciation for the opportunity given to her to serve in the administration. Baba said the ministry had enormous responsibilities that dealt with social responsibility, including issues relating to women, children and people with disabilities. She commended the governor for believing in them to serve in his government. “If you don’t have a leader who believes in you, we wouldn’t have been where we are today,” she remarked. Also, the Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Tourism, Mrs. Ruth Alkali, thanked the governor for the opportunity given to her to serve the people. El-Rufai's wife wants 50% women representation in government Powerful women around governors Garba Deen, el-Rufai and 2011