The newly appointed Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, yesterday explained why he accepted his appointment. Addressing a press conference yesterday, Bayero said since time changes things, he accepted it in good faith. Bayero said from the 1963 when his late father became Emir of Kano to date, a lot of changes had happened and would continue to happen. “Let me give example with myself. I was appointed Danmajen Kano in 1990 by my late dad; later I became Danburan Kano, then Turakin Kano to Sarkin Dawakin Tsakar Gida and finally to Wamban Kano. It may interest you to know that wallahi, I have never gone to anybody asking for any of these appointments. “Again, from the time my late dad became emir to the time he died, he saw a lot of changes and he accepted them in good faith. Historically, the police, prisons, customs, judges and schools were initially under emirates, but as time went by, they separated and our forefathers had to accept the changes. “So, the creation of new emirates to me is nothing but changes that always come from time to time. For me, having five emirs in Kano will affect its development if the emirs can work together in peace and harmony. If the emirs have concern about the development of Kano, they can work together and move the state forward. There is no difference between the all of us,” he said. On his relationship with the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi ll, Bayero said: “Sanusi is my brother. He has respect for me and I have respect for him. I am from the royal family. When he was appointed emir, I was among the first set of people that paid homage to him and I gave him my support and I will continue to support him. “So, because I am appointed emir, I don’t think he will feel offended and I don’t think he will not support me to succeed in all my undertakings. I have no grudges against him whatsoever and I don’t think he has any against me.” More troubles for Emir Sanusi ‘How the next Kano Emir will emerge’ Why I chose Wambai  as Galadiman Kano  – Emir Sanusi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin