The National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Engr. Yusuf Yabagi Sani, has said he remains the chairman of the party despite a statement credited to the suspended National Secretary, Dr. James Okoroma. Engr. Sani, in a statement issued in Abuja, said Okoroma’s claim that he had been suspended was nothing but “self-defeating, dead on arrival and completely invalid.” He said the false and damaging allegations made against him, including misappropriation, forgery and high handedness in the running of the party, had already been submitted to a court of competent jurisdiction. “My attention has been drawn to the statement credited to the suspended National Secretary of the ADP, Dr. James Okoroma, and his cohorts, which claimed that I, Yusuf Yabagi Sani, have been suspended as national chairman of the party by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. “Let me make it clear that the purported suspension is self-defeating, dead on arrival and completely invalid for the following reasons, among others: (I) The so called NWC members are either former or suspended ADP national officers who are no longer members of the ADP NWC. For instance, Dr. James Okoroma knows he is no longer ADP national secretary by the resolution of the National Executive Committe (NEC) of ADP which has since several months ago been duly communicated to INEC. “Barr. Obadiah Bichi who is purported to be the national legal adviser has since withdrawn his membership of ADP.  (ii) By the ADP Constitution, the NWC cannot suspend the national chairman (iii) in any event, none of the signatories to the purported resolution suspending the national chairman is a member of ADP NWC. “I, therefore, state categorically that I remain the National Chairman of the ADP. “Finally, I will not want to comment about the false and damaging allegations made against my person, including misappropriation, forgery and high handedness in the running of the party; as those matters have already been submitted to a court of competent jurisdiction,” the statement read in part. …ADP wants Ekiti gov’ship nullified ADP to APC: Proffer solution to fuel crises or bury your heads in shame ADP zones presidential ticket to North