Three suspected kidnappers that abducted a female victim at the Rumuekini axis of Port Harcourt, Rivers State were on Friday handed over to the Operatives of the Federal Anti Robbery Squard in Port Harcourt . The suspects on Tuesday last week scaled through the fence of their victim at Rumuekini and abducted her. Narrating her ordeal in the hand of the kidnappers the victim who did not disclosed her name for security reasons said the bandits scaled through her fence at about 7.30pm on Tuesday  and ferreted her away in her Vehicle. She said before taking her away the bandits collected her ATM  card from where they withdrew a sum of N 180,000. She said  the suspects stole television sets, handsets and other items from her house . She said while in their custody she was forced by the bandits to transfer a sum of N59,000 being her salary for the previous month to a designated account number. She said ” I was in my house washing my cloths when three young men scaled through the fence to my compound. They brought out a gun and  asked for my husband but I told them he was away. At that point they demanded for money but I told them I had none” “They  collected my husband ATM card, television set , handsets, laptop  and other items. They took me away with our car to a place where we disembarked and I was  lead into a bush from where we trecked for about two hours before we finally got to the place  where I was held” ” While in their captivity they withdrew a sum of N180 from my husband’s account. They also forced me to transfer the sum of N59,000 being my salary from the previous month to a designated account. They demanded for a ransom of N5m which we do not have.  But due to prayers from my church I was able to escape from their captivity.” She said that the kidnappers put a call on her husband where they demanded a sum of N5m. The victim stated that while the kidnappers were negotiating with her husband she miraculously escaped from their captivity. One of the suspects who simply gave his name as Uche said that they scaled a high fence to abduct the woman. He said that they collected the victim’s  ATM card from where they withdrew a sum of N180,000. He also admitted that the victim paid a sum of N59,000 into a designated account number given to her. He said luck ran out of them when they were rounded up the Nigerian Army. Receiving the suspects from the Deputy Director of Army Public Relation Officer, Col. Aminu Iliyazu , the Intelligent Officer Incharge of the F-SARS , Port Harcourt, Okocha Sunday, a Supretendent of Police,  said the suspects will be prosecuted on conclusion of investigation Police kill 2 suspected kidnappers in Rivers Abductors of Daily Sun deputy MD’s wife demand N100m ransom Zamfara woman gives birth less than 5 hours in kidnappers’ den Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin