Senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan, has said he is in the race for Senate president in order to have unity and collaboration between both chambers of the National Assembly and the executive arm of government. He said this is important so that the legislature and the executive will work in harmony for Nigeria and to lift the life of the citizens, improve their economy, eliminate the security challenges in order to make them live in peace and prosperity. Speaking with the press in Abuja yesterday, Sen Lawan who is the front runner in the Senate presidency race, said his driving philosophy is “cooperation, collaboration and synergy” which the key factors in addressing the nation’s challenges. He said there is no need for rancour between the National Assembly and the executive or to take their disagreement to the market place. “Where we disagree, we will resolve the disagreement in a credible, transparent manner,” he said. He however said he will not be a rubber stump Senate president adding that he will be open and transparent in his work. Sen Lawan said President Muhammadu Buhari has a noble and laudable programmes and that he will support him to work for Nigeria and Nigerians. He said he will also work to end the budget passage crisis where there is going to be a time-framed budget defence which will bring a massive relief. He said it will be such that no minister should leave Nigeria during that time until he is through with his budget defence. Otherwise that window will be shut. After that, he said, there will two solid month within which all work by the committees will be thrathed budget will be thrashed out and the budget will ready for the president’s assen before Christmas. Earlier the chairman of his campaign team, Sen Yahaya Abdullahi had extolled the qualities of Lawan which he said has made him eminent qualified for the Senate presidency. He said Lawan’s legislative experience is only equaled by that of Sen Davi Mark. “He is clean, accomplished and a gentleman man to the core,” he said.  APC, PDP set to clash over  National Assembly leadership National Assembly  leadership: Will APC reverse position on zoning? Ninth Assembly: APC recommends Lawan for Senate Presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin