Tax agents suspected to be working under the umbrella of Vehicle Inspection Officers, (VIO) had caused the death of  an elder statesman Chief Geoffery Mgbada in Abakiliki, the Ebonyi state capital.  The incident happened in the early hours of Tuesday along Presco-Ezza road, Abakaliki.  In a quick reaction, the state government has distanced itself from the illegal activities of the VIO and other revenue task forces operating in the state.  The position of the state government was made known in a statement issued by the state governor Chief, Engr. David Umahi and was made available to journalists through his Press Secretary, Mr. Emmanuel Uzor.  The statement read in part ” The Governor is saddened by this careless death and wishes to dissociate the state government from the illegal activities of the VIO and other task force agents in the state and directs for immediate arrest and prosecution of such illegal tax or revenue agents”.  Governor Umahi further called for thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death. “Let it be known that the Governor in a town-hall meeting with indigenes proscribed all task-force agents working under any guise using the state government as cover and that order is still invoke”, it explained.  The governor however commiserated with the family of the deceased and vowed to ensure that justice is done.  He urged members of the public to resist illegal revenue agents as the only body legally permitted to collect revenue on behalf of the government is the newly inaugurated Board of Internal Revenue.  Daily Trust gathered that the deceased was said to be driving with his wife when he was intercepted by the VIO along the popular Ezza Road in Abakiliki.   Umahi suspends payment of income tax, hawker''s permit in Ebonyi markets Umahi suspends payment of income tax Ebonyi 2015: Governor Elechi’s political moves backfire Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin