A former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos state, Hon. Moshood Salvador, on Sunday took a swipe on Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state over his comments on defeating godfathers in Lagos politics. Salvador, who is now a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said the comment attributed to El-Rufai was targeted at the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Salvador who spoke during his annual Ramadan lecture advised El-Rufai to mind his business. According to him, the leadership of Tinubu in Lagos has brought positive developments to the state. He said El-Rufai should face issues of governance in his state. It would be recalled that El-Rufai had in Lagos two weeks ago advised opposition on how to defeat godfathers in Lagos politics, saying he retired four godfathers in Kaduna. El-Rufai reiterated the comment in an interview with State House Correspondents recently, adding however that his statement was not directed at anybody. But Salvador said, “We don’t have problems with leaders in Lagos and El-Rufai should mind his business rather than coming here to tell us what is not. “There are serious issues in Kaduna; the issue of unpaid salaries, the issue of killings and attacks on innocent people. El-Rufai has not addressed all these and he is talking about a state that is working.” He said the state would not entertain any attack on Asiwaju whom he noted had done extremely well for the state. “He laid the foundation for the growth of the state’s IGR from N400million in 1999 to the billions that it is today. “There is no way we can talk about a modern Lagos without mentioning Tinubu. He is a gift to the Yoruba race, second only to Awolowo. We respect him a lot and would not condone attacks on him,” he added. APC chieftain attacks Governor El-Rufai over Godfatherism comment El-Rufai: I’ve no apologies for my godfather comment El-Rufai to Tinubu: I've no apologies on my godfather comment Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin