The Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has praised Mr Dapo Olorunyomi, publisher of Premium Times for his role in the transformation of Nigeria from military dictatorship to a democratic state. He said this yesterday in his keynote address at the launch of a book of essays titled ‘Testimony to Courage’ in honour of Mr Olorunyomi in Abuja. Fayemi recounted the role Mr Olorunyomi played in the establishment and transportation of equipment of Radio Freedom, in the mid-90s during the Sani Abacha military dictatorship. The book, edited by Chido Onumah and Frederick Adetiba, has numerous contributions from Mr Olorunyomi’s associates, teachers, mentees and colleagues. Among the contributors were former governors of Lagos and Osun states Bola Tinubu and Rauf Aregbesola, activist Chief Femi Falana, and pioneer chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu, and several others. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, represented by Babafemi Ojudu, described Mr Olorunyomi as a thorough journalist who tried to talk to all sources before publishing a story. “I didn’t even know he would live up to 60, because he lived so dangerously,” he said. Chairman of the occasion, Malam Kabiru Yusuf, publisher of Daily Trust newspapers praised Mr Olorunyomi for his dynamism and penchant for mentorship. The book reviewer, Chidi Anselm Odinkalu, said most of the articles in the collection “centre not on the subject’s journalism but his activism, humanism and institution building.” In his remark, Mr Olorunyomi thanked the organisers and attendees and said it is his team who deserve to be celebrated. He also urged Nigerian parliamentarians to help in building a strong and accountable media. FG distances self from arrest of Premium Times publisher Social media: Reporters on the move Dangote, Kachikwu, others honoured for contributing to nation’s progress Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin