A socio-political group under the auspices of Good Governance for All (GGA) has gave reasons why Senator Danjuma Goje remains a perfect man to be the Senate President of the 9th Senate. Even though Goje an APC senator representing Gombe Central didn’t officially declared his intention to contest for the third highest position in the country, but the group said its findings revealed that he would declared his intention to lead the 9th Senate sooner than later. It recalled that Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe North) and Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) from North East region of the country have all declared their intentions to contest for the Senate President position. But the group through its National President, Zaharaddeen Muhammad in an interview with Daily Trust on Friday, said among all the senators that have so far declared their intentions none of them deserved to be the Senate President above Goje. He said, “Goje deserved to be the Senate president of the 9th Senate because has the experience, he was the Minister of State, Power & Steel from 1999–2001, a governor of Gombe state for eight years and currently representing Gombe Central at the Senate since 2011. “He studied Political Science at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria. He was a member of the Bauchi State House of Assembly from 1979-1983, so that’s makes him a true democrat and a complete lawmaker, and he understands how both executive and legislation works.” He said. Mr Muhammad said Goje’s experience in the executive and legislation makes him a perfect man to be the leader of the Senate above all other contestants “who didn’t have anything to show apart from being the godsons of the some politicians.” He said that what Goje did in governance also speaks volume and earned him the name of the architecture of modern Gombe while he was the governor. He said, “With Goje at the healm of the affairs of the Senate, there would be no rancour and there would be cordial relationship between the executive and legislative arm of government. And he would unite all the senators because he is loved by all and he respects all the senators.” 9th Senate Presidency Race: Why Danjuma Goje is the man to beat Goje to declare for senate presidency next week 9th Assembly: Group storms NASS, asks Goje to declare for Senate presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin