The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, presented  Certificate of Return to the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Mohammed Matawalle, as governor-elect of Zamfara State. The Deputy Governor-elect, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, three senators-elect and seven House of Representatives-elect, all members of the PDP were equally given their Certificates of Return. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Health and Welfare Committee, Hajiya Amina Zakari, made the presentation of the certificates  at the commission’s Electoral Institute (TEI) in Abuja. The development came two days after INEC declared Matawalle the governor-elect in line with the Friday’s judgment of the Supreme Court. The apex court voided the participation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 elections in the state for not conducting valid primaries ahead of the polls, describing the results of the APC as ‘wasted votes. Also,  23  PDP and one National Rescue Movement (NRM) candidates who came second  in the state House of Assembly election will all get their certificates at the Zamfara INEC office in  Gusau on Friday. Speaking at the event, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, urged politicians and political parties to adhere strictly to internal democracy, particularly the conduct of party primaries. “I want to reiterate the importance of conducting proper primaries before elections in order to reduce the spate of litigation associated with them. At the moment, there are 809 pre-election cases pending in various courts across the country challenging the conduct of primaries by political parties for the 2019 general elections. “This is clearly more than the total number of petitions currently before the various election petition tribunals nationwide challenging the outcome of the main elections. In our last update, the commission reported that 25 certificates of return had been withdrawn and issued to persons declared winners by courts of law. Since then, three more certificates have been withdrawn by court order. In his remarks, the governor-elect thanked the commission for obeying the court order and urged the people of Zamfara State to see the verdict as the will of God. While soliciting for cooperation from the people, he promised to run an all-inclusive government in the state. Insecurity: Zamfara elections tribunal relocates to Abuja Breaking: INEC affirms PDP's Mutawalle as Zamfara governor-elect Zamfara: PDP congratulates Matawalle, others Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin