An activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank has challenged the military to conduct a thorough investigation and make the names of persons planning to overthrow the government public if there was anything like that. Speaking in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the political activist said the military was fabricating lies so as to protect a stolen mandate given to President Muhammadu Buhari ahead of the May 29th inauguration. Frank alleged that “there is evil plans to frame up the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, arrest him or assassinate him in a bid to protect the stolen mandate.” He said Gen. Buhari should have refused inauguration on May 29, as a man who claim to have integrity until the Supreme Court decides like he (Buhari) did in the case of the former CJN Walter Onnoghen.” While asking Lai Mohammed to leave Atiku Abubakar alone, Frank said APC government was now on panic mood, adding that the Waziri Adamawa is a democrat who had no history of political violence. “The military has suddenly turned to propaganda machine under the current administration but like I have said before, until the Supreme Court decides who actually won the last presidential election, APC government will be an ‘illegal’ government after May 29.” On the plan to borrow another $1 billion Chinese loan, Frank said the APC government was gradually mortgaging the future of the unborn Nigerians, saying the President had not explained what he did with the $1 billion withdrawn from the excess crude account for security purpose. “My question has always been, what has he been doing with all the loans so far collected ever since this government came to power? Where is the money they boasted to have recovered from the perceived looters? What about the huge money claimed to have been generated by the agencies of this government? “The insecurity is getting worse. Corruption under Mr integrity is on the highest level. Poverty, unemployment and MMM kind of economy are now the order of the day under the APC administration.” He called on Nigerians to speak up against what he described as evil tendencies of APC government, stressing that the international community had to caution the military against their utterances and their role in politics. Buratai, Military after my life — Timi Frank APC, presidency setting up plots against Atiku — PDP Buhari stole Atiku’s mandate, Frank tells Gen. Abudulsalam Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin