The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) has offered operational licences to 18 new private polytechnics with the North Central and the South West having the lion’s share but none in the North West, North East and South South. The licences were presented to the proprietors of the institutions in Abuja by the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, and the Executive Secretary of NBTE, Dr. Masa’udu Adamu Kazaure, at a brief ceremony last week. This has brought to a total of 131 polytechnics in the country, out of which 56 are privately owned. Seven of the newly approved institutions are located in the South West. They are Best Solution Polytechnic, Akure, Ondo State, Ajayi Polytechnic Ikere, Ekiti State, Landmark Polytechnic, Ayetoro, Ogun State, Redeemers College of Technology and Management, Mowe, Ogun State, Saf Polytechnic, Iseyin, Oyo State, Speedway Polytechnic, Lagos State and Timeon Kairos Polytechnic, Lagos State The North Central too got licences for seven polytechnics: Al-Hikma Polytechnic, Karu, Nasarawa State, Gboko Polytechnic, Gboko, Benue State, Lens Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, The Polytechnic Otada Adoka, Benue State, Ashi Polytechnic, Anyiin, Benue State, Citi Polytechnic, Dutse Alhaji, FCT, and Graceland Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State. The South East got licences for Savanah Institute of Technology, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Uma Ukpai Polytechnic, Asaga Ohafia, Abia State, Grundtvig Polytechnic, Oba, Anambra State, and Mater Dei Polytechnic, Enugu State. Only two monotechnics: Abuja School of Pension and Retirement Planning, FCT, and Adecom College of Business and Management, Ibadan, Oyo State, received licences at the ceremony. Four new private colleges of health technology were also approved by government which has increased the number of the health colleges nationwide to 50. They are New Gate College of Health Science and Technology, Minna, Niger State, Aminu Dabo College of Health Sciences and Technology, Kano State, Emirates College of Health Science and Technology, Kano, Kano State, and Bartholomew College of Health Technology, Shao, Moro, Kwara State. Most of the new institutions will run diploma programmes and higher diploma with time. The government further approved 32 Innovation Enterprise Institutions (IEIs) which increased their number to 152, as well as eight Vocational Enterprise Institutions (VEIs), bringing their number to 84. There are 31 specialised institutions and 119 technical colleges in the country. The private institutions will not get any financial support from government, the Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah, said.  FG approves 20 private polys, 32 enterprise institutions, 4 health colleges What it takes to establish a polytechnic – Dr Kazaure We’re addressing HND/degree dichotomy – NBTE Exec. Sec Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin