President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated his administration’s commitment to boosting business and investment opportunities by reviving train and railway services, building roads and improving on the power sector. Addressing the 59th Annual General Meeting/Conference of National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) yesterday in Kaduna, with the theme; “Regional Integration in Africa: Potentials for Growth and Expansion of Nigerian Businesses” Buhari, who was represented by Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa state, said that his government is re-strategising on effectively tackling security challenges in the country. The President added that the Federal Government will do everything possible to ease doing business in Nigeria and further make the country an investment destination for investors from all over the world. “When this administration came on board in 2015, there are challenges of railway maintenance, power and other issues. Between 24 and 26 states cannot pay their workers’ salary, that was the picture on May 29, 2015. “But through God’s intervention we continued work on the 300 plus roads that we met, while awarding other 100 plus roads, some are finished, some are ongoing. This is to ease transportation and movement of goods and properties. Railway work is ongoing to move cargoes from one place to another, power is also improving. “We are improving the ease of doing business to attract investment, in which Kaduna state ranks number one and Jigawa state ranks number two. As a government, we don’t want a repeat of what happened in Angola and Venezuela so we are doing everything possible to diversify our economy,” he said.  Why Kaduna APC leaders want Buhari, El-Rufai re-elected Kaduna’s business climate after 3 investment summits Buhari orders crackdown on drug traffickers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin