Lack of synergy among Ministries Departments and Agencies of government is making nonsense Nigeria’s e-government scheme, Daily Trust reports. This is even as the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) revealed yesterday that a new all-inclusive e-government master-plan will be launched today by the Ministry of Communications. In the new master-plan, all MDAs will now be compelled to liaise with and synergise with one another to make the country’s e-governance plan a success. The NITDA’s Director General Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami said at a “capacity building for strengthening resilience of e-Government initiatives’’ in Abuja yesterday that the agency would now look into the interactions of different actors, which determine the success or failure of the project. Dr Ibrahim Pantami, who was represented by a director at the agency, Dr Usman Abdullahi, also said NITDA would continue to engage with recalcitrant agencies and would wield the big stick on them if they failed to do the right things. “The National Information Technology Development Agency through its mandate seeks to promote e-government initiatives for improving national competitiveness, openness, collaboration and resource sharing,” he said. But he said a number of achievements were recorded in the Nigeria’s e-government initiatives: the Treasury Single Account (TSA), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC’s) online registration and so on. He said NITDA had also succeeded in reducing the number if failed ICT projects in government service delivery, among other notable achievement. How FG saves N24.7bn monthly through IT – NITDA DG MDAs budget N42.5bn for IT projects this year – NITDA NITDA automate IT projects clearance process Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin