Nisa Premier Hospital, in collaboration with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter of the Association of Orphans and Vulnerable Children of Nigeria (AOON) has provided free medical outreach and food items to Facado Orphanage,  New Karu, near Abuja. Speaking on behalf of the hospital, Dr. Obioma Odogwu, a consultant and Head of the Department of Paediatrics, said the exercise was done to put smiles on the faces of the orphans and to enable them join in the celebration of this year’s Children’s Day. She said every year the hospital visited different orphanages to  mark the day  with children, adding that  the team came with doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals to meet the health needs of the children and the community. She said vaccines were provided for children under five, in addition to malaria and urinalysis screening, as well as toys and toiletries for the children. “Children, listen to your parents and know that you can achieve so much in life. Be good children, have focus, study hard and become people that can make impact in the country,” she advised the orphans. Another paediatrician from the hospital, Diana Shola Doye, advised the children  to imbibe the habit of washing  their hands always, adding  that, “Washing hands is very important as it prevents so many diseases that can spread among children.” She said orphans and vulnerable children needed love and care, and that the gesture was geared towards showing them love as they marked their day. Coordinator of  Fatherless and Motherless Children Aid Organisation  and Facado Orphanage, Mrs. Ngozi George, said the 12-year-old orphanage had 32 children under its care and that they all went to school; except the youngest orphan. While calling on government to increase effort in ensuring that all children in the country had access to education; at least to secondary level, she said Nigerians should  join hands with the government to fight drug abuse, especially among children. She thanked Nisa Premier Hospital for the medical outreach and gifts, and called on government and well-meaning Nigerians to assist in providing the  orphanage a better accommodation, generator, computers, beds, food items, and cash for salaries and daily running of the home. Fate of over 200 orphans hang in the balance Bauchi orphanage cries for  clinic, ambulance Young comedian takes comedy to orphanages in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin