The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) has tackled a former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, over his comment on insecurity across the country, saying insecurity and insurgency started in Nigeria during the regime of the former leader. The president’s support group urged Nigerians to ignore Obasanjo over what it called “his diatribe on Buhari”, which it said was targeted at pushing the country into crisis by inciting violence. Obasanjo had while speaking at the second session of the Synod of the Anglican Church held at the Cathedral of St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Oleh, in Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State, accused Buhari of letting the insecurity situation get out of control by failing to deal decisively with Boko Haram insurgents and killer herdsmen. In a in a statement  yesterday by its Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the BCO said Obasanjo was frustrated because he could not stop the re-election of Buhari, hence his resolve to work towards inciting full scale war among Nigerians. “We are not surprised at all. Obasanjo suffers from a chronic infantile narcissism that makes him get unnecessarily jealous of President Buhari’s achievements in just four years. For eight good years, what Obasanjo brought on Nigeria was the deadly plagues of corruption, unemployment and the insecurity the Buhari government is tackling with consummate exactitude at the moment,” the BCO said. “Before Obasanjo who specialises in finding faults continues to wag his tongue, he should realise that President Buhari is an army general who is a big asset to the Nigerian military and other security agencies in the fight against insurgency, banditry and kidnapping. “What one would have expected from the former president-turned arm chair critic is to ask if President Buhari is tackling insecurity or not. Instead, he has once again chosen to play the regional card. If someone takes the responsibility of righting all the wrongs a failed leader had committed in the country; why not allow him do it?” the BCO asked. It further noted that Obasanjo’s antics of always trying to hoodwink Nigerians into believing his unsolicited lies against any sitting president who did not do his bidding had failed him woefully in Buhari’s case. “Nigerians should not allow Obasanjo to plunge the country into needless crisis; which has been his plan since Buhari came on board. His penchant for attacking serving presidents did not start today,” the BCO observed. Lamido to Obasanjo: Don’t turn to bigot ‘Why Obasanjo rated Atiku higher than Buhari’ Obasanjo pushing his luck too far on Buhari - Sen Adamu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin