Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday said the Federal Government was re-designing the country’s education curriculum as part of its education road map, and every child would count. Osinbajo said this, while delivering the 23rd Convocation Lecture of the Lagos State University during the university’s award of higher degree and postgraduate diploma certificates. The title of the lecture was: “Africa Centres of Excellence in African Universities: A Veritable Catalyst for Nation Building and Development”. He said it was obvious that there was need to change both the substance of education that our children received as well as the methods by which they were educated. “We are clear that the key to achieving this is to focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math Education and the need for a workforce with STEAM skills to drive economic prosperity,” he said. According to him, it was gratifying that LASU Centre for Excellence Programme had been earmarked as a Centre for Excellence and regional hub for Innovative and Transformative STEAM Education in Africa. Osinbajo said the feat recorded by the university fits well with the Federal Government’s policy direction in education and its vision for a prosperous Nigerian economy, to be able to create jobs and train youths on those jobs for the next few years. He said the Federal Government new policy was to introduce Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics curriculum in primary schools. “We also recognise that schooling should support the development of skills in cross-disciplinary, critical and creative thinking, problem solving and digital technologies. “These skills are essential in all 21st century occupation,” he emphasised. Osinbanjo said the national curriculum being developed would not only include teaching of coding, digital arts , design thinking, robotics, critical thinking and other skills but also using these skills in interpreting traditional curriculum topics. He said this was to ensure that from early education, primary school on wards regardless of social background or geographical location every young person should have a fundamental level of digital and stem literacy. According to him, this would enable the students succeed locally and international. (NAN) FG re-designing education curriculum – Osinbajo Over 171m people could be lifted out of extreme poverty if ... - Osinbajo VC wants review of universities curriculum Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin