Senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan, says his ambition to become President of the Senate in the 9th assembly is a product of deep thinking by his colleagues, senators-elect. Lawan made the disclosure, on Thursday, when he appeared on News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Forum in Abuja. “This project is a product of deep thinking by my colleagues, senators-elect. “Some of our colleagues decided right after the Presidential and National Assembly elections to consider the possibility for us to run for the office of the senate president given our history and experience. “So this is a project that originated from senators-elect themselves,’’ he said. The lawmaker, who represents the All Progressives Congress (APC) Yobe North Senatorial District, said he had the requisite experience to deliver in the leadership of the NASS. “One crucial thing is that we have the experience to deliver in the leadership of the national assembly. We have served in the national assembly for almost 20 years in both chambers. “I served very closely with most members in the house at that time and most senators on the senate side. “I would have had a lot of engagements with my colleagues, tapped from their wealth of experiences. “I have learnt a lot of things from both leaders of the NASS whom I served with and members that I also served with. “So, we have what it takes and of course, that helps us in pushing the agenda of ensuring that the national assembly works for Nigerians,’’ he said. Lawan assured Nigerians that his leadership would make accountability and transparency the watchword. “I also believe that the national assembly will do a lot of good in terms of helping to achieve good governance, by ensuring that there is accountability in our administration. “That is to say that we will work with the executive arm of government to ensure that whatever is due for Nigerian public in terms of budgeting is done in such a manner that every fund remains accountable and every expenditure remains transparent,’’ he said. He said based on his campaign slogan, he would love “to have a senate and NASS that work for Nigerians.’’ “Governance, especially in Nigeria, is a collective responsibility between the various arms and in the constitution at the federal level, the legislature and the executive work together, and of course the judiciary, the third arm of government “When it comes to practical governance, the work between the legislature and executive arms of government help in ensuring good administration,’’ he stated. Ahmad Lawan declares for Senate presidency Senate presidency: Choice of Lawan not imposition — Group Inside ‘mad dash’ for Senate presidency Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin