Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has commiserated with the senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye, over the death of his mother, Deaconess Comfort Melaye who died on Thursday. In a condolence message to Dino, Bello described the news of Deaconess Melaye’s death as “a rude shock and great loss not only to Kogi State but Nigeria in general, given her invaluable contributions to the cause of humanity.” The Kogi State governor’s condolence message which was signed by the governor was made available to the journalists in Lokoja on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Muhammed.Bello described the departed Deaconess Melaye as “a quintessential mother, devout Christian and community leader who devoted her life to the service of God and humanity.’’ Meanwhile, the Kogi State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has also condoled Sen. Dino Melaye on the death of his mother, Deaconess Comfort Melaye, describing her deceased as one that would be missed by the party. The PDP in a statement signed its Publicity Secretary, Bode Ogunmola, urged Melaye to take solace in the fact that his mother lived a good life, and had given birth to siblings like him that today are emancipators. The statement said the death would no doubt live a very big vacuum in the life of Sen. Melaye, especially that she offered him good counsel which has improved his quality of representation. The PDP urged the entire Sen. Melaye family to take solace in the legacies left behind, adding that her good works as a philanthropist, a community leader had impacted positively on the lives of other women. The party prayed God to grant the Melaye’s family the fortitude to bear the great loss, and the ability to continue from where their mother stopped from Bello condoles with Melaye over mother’s death Saraki condoles with Melaye over mother’s death Melaye petitions Buhari, alleges assassination plot Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin