No fewer than 1,176 graduands, comprising 997 men and 179 women, on Saturday, passed out as the Batch 28 of the Nigerian Navy Basic Training School, Onne, Rivers State. Addressing the graduands, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin, who is the reviewing Officer, urged them to exhibit total and unflinching loyalty to the service and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He admonished them to remain apolitical and not allow themselves to be used mischievously by anybody for selfish ends. Olonisakin advised them to understand that they were to represent the interest of the country at all times and not any sectional interest. He reminded them about the ongoing security challenges facing the country, saying that the Nigerian Navy and the entire nation’s forces and security agencies were actively engaged in the collective national effort to resolve insurgency and terrorism in the North East and North West regions of the country. He said “as you conclude your training, I congratulate you individually and collectively for your successes and heartily welcome you into the unique fold as members of the nation’s armed forces. “However, as you now stand ready to file out for deployment onboard, there are few tips which if taken to heart, would serve you well both in the service and indeed, the larger society. “First, you must note the primacy of discipline and obedience to superior orders, for your future progress. Hence you must exhibit total and unflinching loyalty to the service, your Commanders and to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Additionally, you must not allow yourselves to be used mischievously by anybody for selfish ends, while remaining apolitical always.” Navy to deploy personnel to North-East for internal security operations Navy arrests owner, students of fake maritime school DHQ to upgrade, accredit Armed Forces Mechanic school – CDS Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin