Federal permanent secretaries, accountant and auditor general of the federation have resolved on the need to urgently review the relevant provisions of the Public Procurement Act (PPA) 2007 to bring them in line with current realities. This was contained in the communique on the Ninth Annual Public Procurement Retreat for Federal Permanent Secretaries, Accountant-General of the Federation and Auditor-General of the Federation and signed by the Director, Communications, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHoSCF), Mrs. Wunmi Ogunmosunle. The federal officials also resolved to fast track implementation of the Act to enhance the delivery of the goals of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) for enhanced national development. According to the communique, they also recognised the need for timely implementation of the 2019 Appropriation Act, when passed, through early commencement of the procurement process. The retreat was organised by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) in collaboration with the OHoCSF last week in Lagos. “Participants also resolved on the need to improve compliance with the requirements for procurement planning as a fundamental activity in the procurement process. Participants agreed to continue to promote harmonious and smooth working relationship with political heads for effective implementation of the Appropriation Act. “It was also resolved that the potentials of Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the procurement of public goods, works and services be explored for better service delivery; while ensuring appropriate alignment of award of contracts with budget releases to stem the rising phenomenon of abandoned projects and huge domestic indebtedness  across  MDAs,” she said.  Cost-cutting: FG bans conference bags, T-shirts, souvenirs, at workshops, seminars Yar’adua’s  FEC has become a tender’s board –Rep Tuggar Financial autonomy: Lagos judicial workers to join nationwide strike tomorrow Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin