The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has flayed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over what it termed the spate of suicide, insecurity, depression, poverty, hunger and misery in the country. The PDP, in a statement on Sunday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said the APC-led government was more interested in dividing the nation than tackling the “economic hardship” which it allegedly brought due to incompetence in government. “The party charges Nigerians to uphold and support one another in love, at this trying time, to check the rising social degeneration in our nation, particularly acts of suicide. “The PDP described as a national tragedy, the rising spate of suicides, slavery mission abroad, divorces, child abandonment and other social degeneration occasioned by the worsening economic hardship, poverty, hunger and rising insecurity under the incompetent, corrupt, divisive and manipulative All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. “The party laments that such social ills, which is a direct response to bad governance, occurs when citizens are overwhelmed by gloom, with no hope in sight, particularly after their majority vote for a new, purposeful and result-oriented President in the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as expressed in the February 23 Presidential election, was subverted with brazen impunity. “Banditry, insurgency, marauding, bloodletting and kidnapping with unmentionable ransoms, have almost become daily occurrences. Our citizenry is now battling with the worst kind of siege mentality. “Constitutional violations, human rights abuses, arbitrary arrests, extra-judicial killings, assault on perceived dissenting voices and attempt at annexation of our institutions of democracy, particularly the judiciary, signposts a nation in dire strait. “Most Nigerians have become downhearted in the face of an administration that wrecked our once robust economy and divided our people; in the face of worsening joblessness, piling bills, hunger and diseases; in the face of incompetence, lies, and unfulfilled promises of free homes, monthly allowance to unemployed youth and the poor, bringing the naira to the same value as the US Dollar, creating of 5 million new jobs, ending of insurgency in three months and myriad of other false promises. “Instead, what our nation has witnessed is an official entrenchment and elevation of incompetence, deceit, propaganda, failure and cabal mentality on the corridors of power; a situation where the only achievement is the foisting of economic recession and mortgaging of the future of our nation with the accumulation of N24.39 trillion debt, with no tangible project to show. “The PDP however calls on Nigerians not to despair but stand firm in their collective determination to retrieve the stolen presidential mandate at the tribunal, so they can have an administration that truly cares for them and which has the competence to return our nation on her deserved path of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity,” the PDP said. ‎Nigerians suffering strange diseases, others under APC regime - PDP Why Nigeria deserve Atiku/Obi presidency – Women group 2015: PDP, APC begin debates, trade blames on insecurity Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin