Acting Inspector General of Police Mohammad Adamu yesterday said about 1,071 persons died in crime-related incidents across the country in four months. He said 767 of the persons killed, which represented 71.62 percent of the national rate, were from the northern region. The IGP said the released figures of victims were from January to April this year. Speaking at the quarterly Northern Traditional Ruler’s Council meeting in Kaduna,‎ he said crimes statistics indicated that between January and April, no fewer than 685 persons were kidnapped across the country. He said northwest recorded 436 cases of death, the highest in the country; northcentral, 250; south-south, 130 cases. He said the data showed that Zamfara State recorded 203 murder incidents, topping the national prevalence scale followed by Kaduna State with 112 reported cases; while Benue State recorded 90 cases. “Most of the murder cases recorded in the northern geopolitical zones are linked with armed banditry and communal violence. In relation to banditry, a total of 175 incidents were reported between January and April this year with Zamfara State recording the highest incident of 104, followed by Katsina State with 21 and Sokoto State with 19 cases,” the IGP said. On incidents of kidnapping, IGP said 546 or 79.8 percent of the national total were recorded in the three northern geopolitical zones with the highest zonal prevalence occurring in the northwest where 365 persons were reportedly kidnapped within the period. “This is followed by the Northcentral Geo-political zone where 145 persons were kidnapped. “It is pertinent to mention that Zamfara State has the highest national kidnap rate of 281 victims in what has been directly linked to activities of armed bandits in the state. “This is followed by Kogi State with 65, Niger State 51 persons were kidnapped within the period,” he said. He noted that the Nigeria Police recently launched ‘Operation Puff Adder’ which is a special operation  aimed at strengthening state commands in redominating and reclaiming the public space from heinous criminals. He said President Muhammad Buhari had directed him to immediately implement community policing strategy across the country as a structure which will enable traditional rulers to maintain an effective cultural and social control over their subjects. JUST IN: 1,071 Nigerians die in crime related incidents in four months - IG‎P‎ Pre- election violence: Scores killed but none is prosecuted Rise of ‘jungle justice’  puts Nigeria on edge