Alhaji Ibrahim Muhammad Gusau is the vigilante leader in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State. He bares his mind on how kidnapping can be eliminated. Daily Trust: What do you think the authorities and other citizens should do to stop kidnapping? Ibrahim Muhammad Gusau: All that people should seek is divine intervention, then rural dwellers have a great role to play in bringing an end to the menace by giving security operatives relevant information on the activities of kidnappers. Many residents of rural communities can identify the hideouts of these criminals. DT: But why are the rural dwellers not helping in this direction? Gusau: It is because of intense fear of the consequences of their actions. For instance, a typical innocent rural dweller is afraid of giving information to security operatives for fear of being tagged as an informant by the criminals. The rural dwellers must develop courage to help with intelligence gathering and security operatives on their own should be concealing the identity of their informants. If these are done, the crime would be reduced to the barest minimum. DT: Recently, you advocated for death penalty for kidnappers, do you think this can help? Gusau: Well, these criminals kill their victims, or maim them for life whenever they strike. They kill to kidnap, they kill to rob. So, if they are convicted and it is established beyond reasonable doubt that the criminal has committed the heinous act of taking an innocent life, he or she must face the same fate. DT: As a vigilante member, what role do you play to help improve security? Gusau:  Our role cannot be over emphasized. If you go to our villages now almost all the residents have become vigilantes. Many of the vigilantes are in the forests defending communities. But people should understand that we vigilantes are different from those called ‘Yan Sakai.’ The vigilantes are working hand-in-hand with security operatives. Police open up on clash with bandits: How we lost 16 policemen, rescued 20 others in Zamfara Zamfara killings: Governor Yari in the eye of the storm Give us rifles to fight bandits, Zamfara Emirs beg Buhari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin