The Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) has promised to enhance its partnership with the Lagos State command of the Nigeria Police Force to reduce crime in the state. Delivering a keynote address at a one-day seminar organised for stakeholders in the Lagos Division, the Chairman of the LNSC Board, retired Deputy Inspector-General, Israel Ajao, disclosed that the initial challenge faced by the LNSC was that Lagos residents misconstrued the Corps for the defunct Neighbourhood Watch. Ajao, however, expressed satisfaction that the challenge had been surmounted and the agency had continued to carry out its primary responsibility of intelligence gathering and provision of information to the police, which he said has the constitutional right to prosecute suspected criminals. Represented by Chief Tunde Aboyade, a Board member representing Ikeja division, Ajao lauded security agencies, especially the NP,F for its support to the safety corps. “I have the utmost regard for you for your unflinching support for us,” he stated. He further disclosed the Board’s plan to enhance the relationship with the Police Force and work with education authorities in the state to stem the rising tide of cultism among primary and secondary school pupils in Lagos. In his goodwill message, Chief Superintendent of Police Francis Ani, who spoke on behalf of the Area B Commander, expressed delight at the existing relationship between the LNSC and the Police, promising that the police would continue to work with the security outfit. The Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force, Chief Superintendent if Police Saheed Egbeyemi, expressed his admiration for the work done by the LNSC in the last two years despite not being armed. Egbeyemi opined that Lagos State was ready for the establishment of state police anytime it is approved, saying, “The issue of state policing is coming gradually to be and Lagos State is ready”. The guest lecturer at the occasion, Mr. Sola Opaleye, who delivered a lecture titled “Positive and Productive Attitude to Work and Life”, enjoined LNSC operatives to be mindful of their attitude, noting that “attitude will either draw people closer to you or drive people away from you”.  Whoever obstructs LNSC officials risks N250,000 fine, imprisonment – Lagos Assembly Community Policing: DIG urges residents to take ownership of Lagos Neighbourhood Corps Army shut down Rivers Neighbourhood Watch’s training camp Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin