Readers of these pages may recall that the column in the  September 7, 2018 of this newspaper focused on how the joint  representative of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC)  and Trade Union Congress (TUC) on the Board of the National Pension Commission (PenCom) neglect the problems faced by pensioners in general and those holding Retirement Savings Accounts, in particular. At the time I expressed my personal view that given the failure of the NLC to be a real champion of retirees that contributed to its financial and numerical strength in their working days, it should have no representation on PenCom’s Board. This is without prejudice to the fact that PenCom is working for dual clients: contributors to pension fund who are workers, and retirees. The arguments advanced for removing the representative of the NLC whenever the Contributory Pension Reform Act is due for further amendment by the National Assembly remain as valid and justified as they were in September 2018. The NLC’s fight over the appointment of a Chairman of the Board of the National Security Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) indicates that it was more concerned of planting individuals they preferred into positions of power than caring for Contributory Pension Scheme Pensioners whose money is used in paying allowances to the NLC representative on the Board of the National Pension Commission. While the NLC was reportedly willing to hurriedly  draft tankers loaded with  fuel to the Asokoro residence of Dr. Chris Ngige to intimidate him into swearing in Comrade Frank Kokori as the Chairman of the NSIFT, the same organisation has been consistently silent on, for example, the N62 billion unpaid pension arrears for pensioners of the Oyo state public sector.  The NLC is not interested in that. The excessive enthusiasm demonstrated by the NLC on the NSITF chairmanship to the extent of mobilizing those tankers to set up a blockage in a serene neighbourhood, while not making anything close to a strong effort on the plight of pensioners in the country, has set tongues wagging on the two extreme attitudes. However, it is my ardent belief that the NLC can show its soft side towards the plight of pensioners and pension matters in various useful ways.  For instance, the NLC should on its own initiative engage in a massive campaign to convince its members in the informal sector of the economy to be part of the micro pension plan that will be launched by PenCom. By doing so, it will justify the union dues they pay from their hard-earned money, in some cases, daily. The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), the Nigeria Automobile Technicians Association (NATA) and the National Fish & Frozen Food Dealers Workers Association of Nigeria and the Association of Grains Traders of Dawanau, are some of the largest informal groups without pension plans for their members. They should be engaged by the NLC and encouraged to persuade their members to join the Micro Pension Plan and save for their rainy, retirement days. To ensure that the target groups for PenCom’s Micro Pension Plan are reached, engaged and convinced to subscribe to the idea speedily and comprehensively, the NLC should partner with PenCom in a national awareness creation drive. In this way, NLC will be serving and caring for workers even after they stop paying union dues as retirees. Another way the NLC can show its concern for the well-being of its former members as retirees or pensioners, is by championing their inclusion among those qualified to benefit from the healthcare services offered by the National Health Insurance Scheme.  The retirees were contributors to the NHISC fund, but are excluded from its services once they exit their salaried jobs. The NLC as a big centre of economic and social refugee for workers should consider extending that zone of comfort to pensioners. How NLC, TUC neglect pension matters Reps grill PenCom DG, AGF over N8.89tr pension remittance gaps NLC to employers: It’s criminal not to remit workers’ pension Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin