The Committee of Banks’ Chief Executive Officers in Nigeria has condemned the action of bad debtors who now resort to smear campaigns against banks and their chief executives in order to either delay repaying loans or avoid meeting their debt obligations completely. The Body of Banks CEOs as the group is known, during a meeting in Lagos to review what it called the “harassment and criminalization of banks’ CEOs by law enforcement agencies”, noted that chronic bank debtors were now in the habit of enlisting law enforcement agencies including police, judiciary and state security to harass and criminalize banks’ CEO, saying this was unacceptable. They added that these loan defaulters are known to have abused court processes as well as using social media to propagate their smear campaign against the banks. A communique issued following the meeting, noted that these activities by the law enforcement agencies and the bank debt defaulters were capable of adversely affecting the banking system vis-à-vis the CEOs reputation amongst international banks. In order to tackle what they see as an emerging threat to banking business in Nigeria, the Committee of Banks’ CEOs, therefore, outlined a five-step resolution of actions that banks would need to take. Specifically, the banks’ CEOs said there was an urgent need for all banks to cooperate and collaborate to identify and ex-communicate chronic debt defaulters, noting that, “This goes beyond publishing names of such defaulters in national media (which is inevitable), but involves all banks speaking with ‘one voice’ and sharing information about those entities, and refusing to do further business with them until they settle their obligations.” To avoid the kind of crisis that rocked the banking sector ten years ago, the CEOs urged all agencies and stakeholders to step up and help fight the inherent menace of chronic loan defaulters. Much ado about publication of bank debtors Review bankers’  prudential guideline decree to check bad debt incidence ‘Loan recovery, biggest challenge for micro finance banks’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin