The South-West chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday faulted the Court of Appeal decision affirming the election of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and nullifying the verdict of the Osun Governorship election petition tribunal which earlier declared Senator Ademola Adeleke as winner of the governorship election. Chairman of the party, Dr. Eddy Olafeso said the party shocked at the premise upon which the said verdict was “anchored”. He hinted that the decision would be appealed at the Supreme Court, expressing optimism that justice would be served in favour of the PDP candidate. Olafeso also reiterated that the PDP won the 2018 governorship election in Osun. He however urged members and supporters of the party to remain calm and law-abiding. He said, “It is crucial for us to underscore our fervent belief that justice is the bedrock upon which our democracy rests squarely and without it, despotism shall reign unhindered. That will not be the portion of our dear nation, thus we are determined to ensure that we pursue all actions that will give muscle to the electoral desires of the people of Osun State as validly expressed in that election. “We restate that the APC did not fairly win that election and President Buhari gave this view credence when he publicly described the victory of his Party as “remote controlled”, thereby confirming that power privileges were criminally abused by his government and Party. “Most certainly, we shall approach the Supreme Court for final adjudication on this matter. We appeal to PDP members and supporters in Osun State to be law abiding and shun all provocations. There is certainly another judicial dawn that beckons”. Osun guber: Scores of judgement as Adeleke, Oyetola lock horns in courts South West set for new era as progressives take over Osun, Ekiti, other states We'll retrieve our Osun gov'ship mandate at S/Court - PDP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin