The outgoing governor of Nasarawa state, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura has formally handed over keys of the Government House, Lafia to the incoming Governor, Engineer Abdullahi Sule. Al-Makura handed over the keys at a brief ceremony attended by staff of the Government House. Daily Trust reports that the outgoing Governor left the Government House immediately after the ceremony along with his personal aides as his family had moved out of the residence earlier. In his remarks, Governor Al-Makura said, “We devoted many hours with my successor during the practical handing over and transition; in short, he is now good to go as he has seen the data and statistics about the projects commissioned and governance over the years. “Before I leave, I am happy to have left Nasarawa better than I met it; immediately after, I have handed over the keys to the “Landlord” of Government House, Lafia. “As he will be sworn-in in almost few hours from now by May 29, 2019, I pray for God to guide and protect you and give you peace and comfort in this house.” Also speaking, the incoming Governor, Engineer Abdullahi Sule said, “We are witnessing an opportunity of one of the very gentlemen with good leadership qualities. “We have started working on this project since the transition period; this is an opportunity and everybody within the state will tell that we are overwhelmed with the works of the last one month. “I have closely monitored the work of Governor Al-Makura; he is not taking anything out of Government House. I am promising the people of Nasarawa that I will make it better than I met it. I pray for him and his family to enjoy God’s guidance and protection.” Al-Makura sets up panel to probe Sen Adamu What I told Nasarawa traditional leaders in secret – Buhari Al-Makura, is this true democracy? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin