A 20-year-old apprentice, KosiNnamani, was on Monday in Lagos arraigned in an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly stealing his master’s goods worth N1.94 million. According to the prosecutor, ASP Clifford Ogu, the defendant committed the offence between October 2018 and March 13 in Ikeja. He said that the defendant and others still at large allegedly stole the goods belonging to one Mr Victor Umendu. Ogu told the court that the defendant, who was serving Umendu with a view to getting settlement after some months, conspired with his friends to steal from him. He said that the complainant (Umendu) discovered that goods in his store were depreciating, with little cash remitted. “When the complainant noticed that goods were reducing in his shop, with little cash remitted, he decided to take stock, which led to the discovery that goods worth N1.94 million were missing. “The complainant collected his apprentice phone, read some messages where he discovered that the defendant has been transferring money to one Chimelo and one Johnson. “He also discovered through text messages that the defendant had bought land in Enugu State.” The prosecutor said that the complainant reported the case at a police station and the defendant was arrested. The alleged offences contravene Sections 287 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 287 provides for three years’ imprisonment for stealing, while section 411 stipulates two years’ jail term for conspiracy. Nnamani, who resides at Shasha, Lagos State, however, pleaded not guilty to the two- count charge. Magistrate J.A. Adegun granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties who should be gainfully employed and show evidence of two years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned until May 13 for mention. (NAN) Businessman arraigned for stealing brother’s vehicles Man, 30, arraigned  for N.8m fraud Police arraign businessman over alleged N3.3m fraud Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin