The management of Akwa Ibom State University (AKSU) has sympathised with the family of one of their student, Late Emem Jimmy shot dead by a notorious gang of phone snatchers. It was learnt that the victim, a 200 level undergraduate student of political science department was shot dead at the weekend along Wilson Idiong street, close to the Obio Akpa campus of the University in Oruk Anam local government area of the state. Eyewitness report claim the deceased attempted to resist unknown gunmen from snatching his phone before he was shot dead. According to the Head, Directorate of Information, Public Relations and Protocol of the University, Mr Akaninyene Ibanga, the victim died though he was immediately rushed to the hospital for treatment. In a statement, the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof Eno Ibanga assured members of the University community of their safety despite the recent security challenges experienced in the campuses. He warned criminal elements to desist from any form of criminality within and outside the University community, adding that the University community was not a safe haven for criminals including cultism and other related social vices. “Late Emem was shot between the hours of 8.30 – 9pm at Wilson Idiong Street, off Ikot Okoro Road, Obioakpa, Oruk Anam Local Government Area in an attempt to resist unknown gunmen from snatching his phone.” “He was rushed immediately to the hospital for treatment which the University Management took over the hospital bills just to save his life but on Saturday late Emem could not survive the struggle with death, so he finally passed on at about 12.30pm.” “The Vice-Chancellor hereby condoles with members of the family of the deceased. He also appealed to all members of the University Community to remain calm and continue with their normal businesses/duties while speedy effort is being made by the relevant law enforcement agencies to fetch out the perpetrators of this heinous act,” the statement read. A’Ibom university suspends 4 students over rape Gunmen kill 100 level university student in Bayelsa over phone Ballot box snatcher shot dead in A/Ibom Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin