Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, a former Governor of Kano State has advised those who lost elections to be humble enough to join hands with President Muhammadu Buhari to build a better Nigeria. He gave the advice on Thursday in Abuja at a book launch titled: ‘’Four Years Achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari and Consolidation’’, organised by the Awareness for Good Leadership, Peace and Development (AGLPD). The AGLPD is a support group of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Shekarau who was chairman of the event while acknowledging the challenges in the country, said there would always be challenges in every human endeavor. He therefore, said that it was not surprising to hear people talk about challenges even when lots of achievements had been recorded under the Buhari-led administration. He said that life is all about problem solving, saying that in spite of challenges, the Buhari-led administration would continue to do its best to meet the needs of the people. Shekarau commended the organisers of the event for the launch of the book, saying it was a most read compendium. He noted that though some ministers in the Buhari cabinet had underperformed, but the president should be commended for his tenacity. The President of the organisation, Abdullahi Katsina, said aside the launch of the book, the event was to discuss priority areas and what should be the focus of the Buhari administration in its second term. He said the event was also to come up with the expectations of APC foot soldiers who had worked to ensure Buhari’s re-election in the next level of the administration. According to him, Buhari has an ideology which is to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians in spite numerous challenges. Katsina said Buhari is already doing this by embarking on infrastructure development and he is poised to do more in the next level of his administration. He, however, stressed the need for the Buhari-led administration to ensure that political appointments are evenly distributed across the six geo-political zones for the party’s foot soldiers who have been working to benefit. He also stressed the need for constant prayers by Nigerians to stop the menace of kidnappings in the country which he said is on the increase. Katsina urged Nigerians to cooperate with traditional rulers and security operatives to tackle the menace headlong. Alhaji Muhammad Shehu, said whatever imperfection country might be having, the Buhari led administration remained the best the country has ever had. “Although, we might not be where we ought to be as a nation, there is need to celebrate under this administration. “That we may have challenges with security, agriculture, unemployment, we are getting there in the next level of this administration, “he said. He urged politicians to go to their wards and be proactive, adding that by moving to their various wards, it would go a long way in moving the country forward. (NAN) 2019: Kano will deliver 5 million votes to Buhari, Ganduje insists Kano rally sets tone for Shekarau, Kwankwaso hot contest Buhari will get fewer votes in North in 2019 — Shekarau