The National Executive Council (NEC) of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has passed a vote of confidence on its president, Mr Bello Shagari, in recognition of his leadership attributes. Bello is the grandson of late President Shehu Shagari. The Southeast Organising Secretary of the council, Mr Izunna Agwuncha made the disclosure in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Owerri on Monday. Agwuncha said that the NEC passed the vote during its meeting in recognition of Shagari’s leadership attributes which he said had given the council a long desired facelift. According to Agwuncha, the NEC identified Shagari’s leadership strengths to include his clear vision of the yearnings and aspirations of today’s youth, strong willpower and dogged defence of the NYCN constitution. He said that these attributes had combined to earn the NYCN leader such awards as the Crans Montana new leaders of tomorrow 2019 award in Morocco and an award of excellence by the Abdulsalami Abubakar Institute for Peace and Sustainable Development. Others are an honorary fellowship award by the governing council of the Institute for Security and Forensic Studies, Nigeria and a recent appointment as coordinator of the Afro-Arab Youth Council. The NEC however, called for improved autonomy for NYCN so as to enable its helmsman administered the affairs of the council with sincerity of purpose in total compliance with the NYCN constitution. “The NYCN president has exemplified clear vision, sincerity of purpose, willpower and ability to defend the constitution of the council. “Little wonder he bagged the most influential young Nigerian award in 2018 and a plethora of awards and recognitions across Nigeria and beyond. “This is why I raised a motion for a vote of confidence on him at our National Executive Council (NEC) meeting on Friday and as expected, the NEC gave it a well deserved nod in agreement. “At the same time, we call for improved autonomy for the council so as to reduce distraction and enable our president focus on the pursuit of the general interests of the Youth in Nigeria”, he said. (NAN) NYCN official condemns manipulation of youth by politicians Youth inclusiveness panacea to good governance Youth Council elects new leadership Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin