About four years after President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the full implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA), full compliance hasn’t been achieved. Out of the about 900  ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), a significant number have either not complied or are partially implementing the prescription of TSA in flagrant violation of the presidential directive. Whilst the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OGGF) has declined to name the MDAs that have refused to comply and why, our correspondent gathered that about 50 MDAs have either refused to comply or have only partially complied. However these MDAs, mostly tier revenue earners for the Federal Government, have continued to run opaque revenues disclosure and accountability regime. The TSA, a revenue and expenditure system, is supposed to enable the FG have a complete view of all revenues and expenditures of the MDAs at all times. This is expected to enhance accountability of public finance management and also aid efficient applications of government resources for maximum impact. At the last count, at least N30trn has been processed through the TSA (both payments and withdrawals) according to the Director TSA, Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OGGF), Mr. Sylva Okolieaboh. The director had revealed this at the sidelines of the official visit of the delegation from the Gambian Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs to understudy Federal Government of Nigeria’s TSA. “If you are looking at transactions in terms of turnover, we have done about N30trn, but remember money is in and out,” he had said. He however declined to give the current balance in the TSA account even though he said it is possible to have the balance at any point in time. He said Nigeria’s TSA model has been a success story which is evident in countries like Gambia wanting to learn from Nigeria. “We’ve done a very good job of the TSA. We are happy the world appreciates what we are doing. The Gambia is here to understudy our model, we are expecting Ethiopia and others,” he said. Mr. Okolieaboh also said the impact of the TSA policy has been huge even though the judiciary and the National Assembly have refused to get on the TSA, the only two arms of government he volunteered to disclose they haven’t joined the TSA. According to him, the reason the legislature and judiciary have refused to join is largely political. He however said the issues are being resolved and that those arms of government should also be joining the TSA going forward. “As far as I know and have been part of the public finance management reforms for a long time, there are no other reforms in Nigeria that have made as much impact and gained as much traction as the TSA. It’s an all inclusive reform. Almost everyone is in. We did this within a small time frame and we have stabilized it,” he said. The TSA has indeed been successful going by quantum of revenues that have been tracked using the remitta gateway, but it’s been quiet on full disclosures. For instance, besides the OAGF’s refusal to publish full names of non compliant MDAs, it has also refused to say the closing balance in the TSA at the end of FG’s financial year for three years and still counting. This led to a recent House of Representatives investigation into activities of the TSA. After the investigation, the legislators reported bad norms in the implementation of the TSA. The Chairman Ad Hoc Committee on Treasury Single Account, Hon. Danduram Nuhu Abubakar, while presenting the report on their investigation of TSA implementation at House’s plenary, called for sanctions against Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government which have not complied fully with the Treasury Single Account (TSA) policy. The committee’s report, which has been adopted by the House, investigated compliance of the MDAs with a view to ascertaining proceeds into the TSA since commencement, as well as ensuring transparency and accountability. Hon. Abubakar Danburam told the House that during the course of its investigation, “it was observed (that) funds belonging to the federal government to the tune of billions of naira and hundreds of millions of dollars were operated outside the TSA by the MDAs in collaboration with banks.” The committee also reported extra-budgetary spending by the MDAs breaching the TSA rules. The committee had reported that “the Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accountant General of the Federation and the Central Bank of Nigeria should intensify efforts to enforce full implementation and compliance with TSA Policy by all Ministries, Departments and Agencies.” “That the Ministry of Finance and Office of the Accountant General of the Federation should be directed to publish, sanction/prosecute with immediate effect all MDAs, Private Persons, Private Organizations as well as banks where FGN Funds are hidden based on the discoveries made in the report of the consultants engaged by the OAGF and review their compliance with the TSA,” the report added. Just recently, the Africa Leadership Strategy and Transparency Development Initiative (ALSTDI) called on the law enforcement agencies to also beam searchlights on the implementation of the TSA as some MDAs are not complying. When Daily Trust reached out to the Accountant General of the Federation, Alhaji Ahmed Idris, on the identity of the MDAs that have refused to comply and why, he referred our correspondent to the Director of TSA Mr. Okolieaboh. When contacted, Okolieaboh also declined to speak on the matter. He however volunteered a personal opinion on the report of the House saying “the report isn’t entirely true. It’s a mixture of facts and fictions.” When asked to state the facts from the fictions, he declined further opinion. One thing is certain: the compliance rate of the TSA isn’t total as huge unaccountable monies are still circulating outside of the federal government’s tracking. And this might go on for a long while.  FG to punish defaulters of TSA deadline MDAs, banks under pressure as TSA deadline ends pg 21 opening Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin