The manufacturing sector witnessed a sluggish growth in the first quarter of 2019 due to electioneering activities, in spite of the sustained growth of the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for 26 consecutive months. Mr Muda Yusuf, Director-General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said the performance of the GDP in the first quarter of 2019 was not surprising being an electioneering period with little economic activities. He noted that continuous improvement in the business environment and strong institutions would ensure seamless economic activities irrespective of the political environment. Yusuf said there was need to address issues of operating, production and transportation cost for the PMI growth to reflect and translate to economic growth. He expressed optimism that growth in the manufacturing sector would increase based on the expected improvement in consumer spending arising from the implementation of the new minimum wage and the budget. (NAN) Mr Hamma Kwajaffa, Director-General, Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NTMA), said despite the high PMI, the rising level of unsold inventory was a concern that had impinged on the sector’s growth. Kwajaffa said many manufacturers were facing the challenges of unsold goods arising from low purchasing power of consumers and the harsh economic situation. He noted that the issue reflected in the decline recorded in the PMI measurement for new orders and raw materials inventory. Kwajaffa urged government to address the challenges of inadequate power supply which constituted about 35 per cent of production cost. Also, an economist, Mr Akin Akinbiyo, said the PMI index continued to reflect an expanding economy, adding that without strong policy impetus economic consolidation might be threatened. (NAN) Recession: Nigeria’s economy is not yet out of the wood – MAN President Manufacturing sector likely to bounce back in 2017 – Experts Sustain policies that catalysed exit from recession, OPS tells FG Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin