The Allied People’s Movement (APM) has said it will resist any attempts by the APC to frustrate its petition at the Ogun State Governorship Election Tribunal. The party had rejected the outcome of the March 9, governorship election in Ogun State, and therefore proceeded to court after INEC announced APC as winner. The National Chairman of APM, Alhaji Yusuf Mamman Dantalle, told newsmen yesterday in Abuja that the APC had allegedly disbanded an existing tribunal and was planning to constitute another panel of judges that would dance to its tune. Dantalle said the new panel being constituted would be led by a certain judge who he claimed had affiliation with some APC bigwigs in the South West. “We make bold to say that our petition is one that has chances of success at the tribunal and we shall not entertain any misgiving that the APC is trying to bring in through manipulation. “They brought motions to disband the panel without any cogent reasons known to the law and then requested for a new panel to be constituted and the panel now reconstituted is being led by a judge who may likely dance to their tune and jettison the law in their favour. “This application for disbanding of the panel is to waste the time of the petitions and create a situation of helplessness to the tribunal which may either result to lapsing the petition; because they know that we have a water tight case against them at the tribunal,” he said. The party called on the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) to take note of the happenings and appealed to the President of the Court of Appeal to constitute another panel of judges who would not be from the South West and would be neutral and committed to delivering justice. APM rejects reconstituted Ogun Tribunal, indicts Osinbajo, Tinubu Ogun: INEC denying LP access to election documents - Lawyer Ogun: Akinlade hires Adeleke’s lawyer as battle shifts to tribunal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin