Senate Presidency aspirant, Senator Muhammadu Ali Ndume, has strongly advised President Muhammadu Buhari to suspend every other thing for now and concentrate on securing the country. Chatting with newsmen on Thursday in Maiduguri, Senator Ndume passionately lamented that virtually every part of country was faced with its own security challenge. “The federal government should leave every other thing for now and concentrate squarely on security,” he advised. Stressing the importance, he added “It is very important now for government to be determined to address the issue of security,”  and he also maintained that without security, no development can be achieved. Senator Ndume frowned at the persistence of Boko Haram insurgency, pleading with government and security agencies to squarely determinedly address themselves to the situation. “We are tired of hearing ‘Boko Haram attack has been repelled’ or ‘Boko Haram has been degraded; we want to hear Boko Haram have been completely defeated and the war has ended,” advising government and the security agencies to set a time limit for the end of Boko Haram and work towards that.“ “The black spots of the war are known; Sambisa Forest; Gwoza and Mandata mountains; and the Lake Chad regions; these are where the insurgents are now concentrated; troops should be massively deployed there,” he said. Senator Ndume also threw his weight behind the establishment of state police to combat insecurity, advising every state wishing to do so to borrow a leaf from countries operating that system of policing on the cordial, collaborative and corroborative relationship between the federal and state police systems. Senate Presidency: Stakeholders drum support for Ndume My ordeal at Maiduguri Airport – Sen. Ndume 9th Senate leadership: Imposition won’t work – Ndume Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin