The outgoing Governor of Ogun State, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun, has said those who tag him “worst governor” in the history of the state are envious of his achievements. Gov. Amosun said the state and indeed Nigeria craved for “worst leaders” like him capable of redefining the nation. Amosun spoke to newsmen yesterday shortly after he inaugurated a 600-flat MTR Gardens at Isheri along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The governor specifically threw tantrums at his predecessors, Otunba Gbenga Daniel and Chief Olusegun Osoba, saying the duo could not march the achievements of his administration. Amosun boasted that if Daniel and Osoba jointly pointed to a project they had executed, “I will show them 10.” Daily Trust reports that Daniel had over the week slammed Amosun over “pathological and needless lies” regarding his administration which Amosun had claimed bequeathed bad economy, deplorable infrastructure and insecurity. The outgoing governor equally said he had no regret becoming “Abeokuta governor”, a sobriquet he earned following alleged concentration of infrastructural projects of his government in the state capital, where he hails from. Amosun said, “I am not the first governor in the state. Particularly, let’s talk about the last two. Let’s leave all the military administrators. Take Chief Osoba, take Daniel, put them together and let them point (to their projects). Once they say this is our project, I will show them 10. Even the axis of Ijebu and Yewa, I will show them,” he said. When asked for his advice to the incoming governor, Amosun said, “I don’t have any advice.” Ogun needs 'worst governor' like me, says Amosun I inherited a failed state in 2011, says Amosun Daniel to Amosun: Enough of 'needless lies' Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin