Reelected Governor of Niger state, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has vowed to tackle corruption within the state civil service as part of his proposed reform to making it productive. In his inaugural speech for the second term in office on Wednesday in Minna, Bello promised that his administration will continue to promote good governance, streamline the decision-making process and tackle corruption within the civil service. “We will rid the public service of dead wood, block leakages in recurrent spending, strengthen our fiscal management and procurement frameworks, and enthrone transparency and accountability at all levels through institutional reforms and automation,” he pledged. According to him, Government efforts in the last four years to clean the state Wage Bill have not been successful due to the “activities of some criminal elements in the civil service who are bent on stealing the legal earnings of others. We will not tolerate anyone shortchanging any civil servant.” In this wise, he said his administration will institute the Whistle-Blowing-Policy where anyone with useful information that would lead to uncovering of the salary cartel and their shady deals would be handsomely rewarded, even as he assure that his administration will protect such individuals. He said his administration is focused on sustaining its policy of financial prudence and budget discipline, which has kept the cost of governance within reasonable limits, while ensuring that more resources are channeled into capital expenditures and welfare enhancing projects. He also promised that his administration will establish a Civil Service Institute to help build a well-motivated, effective, and efficient civil service through capacity building, retooling, improved welfare, and re-orientation; with the capacity to plan, execute and monitor our development projects and programmes He thanked the electorate ‘for demonstrating in clear terms your confidence by entrusting in us your mandate to steer the ship of state for another four years, and we acknowledge that to whom much is given, much is equally expected.” He said his administration is determined to fully justify the confidence reposed on it by taking the state to the next level in all indices of progress. Has the Civil Service really reformed since 1974? Has Yar’adua ruled Nigeria for 10 years? Civil Service Reform storm rages on Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin