Mr. Tola Adekoya is the director of the School of Banking Honours. In this interview with www.leaks.ng, a coalition of news and civil society organisations which provide a platform for Nigerians to submit evidence of wrongdoing by public office holders in Nigeria, he explains how his school first brought the issue of the unremitted N20 trillion stamp duty to the fore and revealed those with questions to answer. Excerpts:  How did the School of Banking Honours come about the issue of unremitted stamp duties? The School of Banking Honours is the first innovation enterprise institution in the banking sector in Nigeria. We are the first banking monotechnic listed by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). We figured out that there is a major problem with banking in Nigeria; which is retrenchment. The youths of this country are running away from banking and going into other professions like accounting and so on. They believe banking is a closed market, and with the retrenchment going on, they have become scared, and so the onus is on us as the first banking monotechnic to create alternative jobs that will engage them in large volumes as to make banking attractive through what we call “shadow banking.” All those experienced bankers that are being retrenched are going to be absorbed at a lower level than banking to be able to teach and impact their skills on the incoming younger generation for banking not to lose its relevance: that is the main focus. We carried out the research, we brought out about 12 products that will sustain shadow banking. The first of those 12 products is stamp duty, which had been overlooked in banking for over 20 years. One of the evidence you need to see on the stamp duty is to look at any cheque leaf from any bank and you will see “stamp duty paid” embossed on it, but these monies are not remitted to the government and that was where our research started. What year was this? We started in 2011 and then moved into 2012, the cashless policy started in January 2012. What has your research revealed? The research revealed that since 1993, when the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) took over cheque clearing from government, the government has not been receiving stamp duty paid on cheques. We demanded CBN to ensure that these monies get into government coffers as provided by Section 23 of the CBN Act of 1991. There is the issue of N20 trillion that the government was supposed to earn. How did you arrive at this figure? Very simple. Number one; the cashless policy was an innovation of CBN and it is supposed to provide an alternative to cheque payment which will be faster and electronically delivered. But various laws are there, we approached CBN to partner on shadow banking in February 2012, and they turned us down. So, we got an agreement with NIPOST to represent the government in collecting the money, after all, NIPOST can issue stamp. And so, we got all the approvals, we did a press conference with the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc (NIBSS) on January 4, 2013. In fact, three banks were supposed to be collecting money for stamp duty for us: First Bank, Standard IBTC and Unity. But NIBSS that has the figure and the volume of transactions from 1,000 upwards, rose up in arms against us, forgetting this approval. What was their contention? At the time we had the approval, they had the approval to charge on transactions from N500,000 upward, while the approval we got from government was from N1,000 upwards, and the MD of NIBBS, Mr. Folashodun Adebisi Shonubi, challenged me and said, “Look, transactions below N500,000 to N1,000 are so voluminous that if you apply N50 on them we will be recording revenue that will push oil into a distance second.” This was on January 7, 2013, when we served NIBSS a letter of engagement to be sweeping stamp duty from the banking sector into government. We were just going to get our commission and probably share with them. But they were not interested in that, they were interested in blocking the government from realising the full potentials of the law that has been in place for over 20 years. How did they shut out the government? They issued the circular and we said, “Where is the government’s share?” And when they didn’t listen to us, we served them a demand notice and then they said, “Come and collect it.” I have all the papers. He (the then NIBSS managing director) sent an email to me on July 5, 2015, to go and collect it. But CBN is adamant. The CBN that gave approval and then switched the approval of the government for the private sector has been restricting it. What did you do then? That was quite later in the year, I think we went to court in 2017. This issue has been on since 2012. What led us to court in the first instance was NIPOST; they became unnecessarily ambitious. Before they went to court, when did they begin to collect the stamp duty? It is irrelevant to us because they issued a circular in 2016. That is outrageous. We got approval in 2012 and then you switched the approval of the government to the private sector because of the volume of funds involved. CBN tampered to the whims of NIBSS by switching approval of the government for the private sector, that is criminal and we have all the papers, then you now came on January 2016 to say that okay you negotiated with NIPOST and KASMAL to now issue a circular in January 2016 against the law. So, who owns KASMAL? Buruji Kashamu, now a senator. Now, what happens to the money that NIPOST has collected? NIPOST has not collected a kobo on their own. They accrued all these ones in CBN, they opened an account which is called NIPOST-STAMP DUTY ACCOUNT and they started putting some money from January 2016. Even from the returns they sent to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the Senate there are gaps, but that is not our major concern, we are more interested in the totality of the liability of amount accruable to government Where is the N20 trillion which was supposed to accrue to the government? The money is mostly with CBN and NIBBS, they were collecting all those transaction charges from transactions of N500,000 and below. The money is with CBN and NIBBS, the balance for the N500,000 and above are with banks that they have not remitted and we have our strategy to collect those without disrupting anybody’s activity, that’s why we are consultants. We got a presidential order and a contract was signed with us, there were conditions attached to it. What exactly is the problem? The major problem is that CBN is adamant to release the funds owned by the Federal Government. They invest in banks. And we are against that. Once there is interest in private sector banks then it shouldn’t be regulating them and should not have any business to represent the government in the CBN. There are key persons in CBN that own investments in private sector banks, and so their interest is more in those banks than in supporting Federal Government employers. Therefore, as researchers and consultants who are not involved in this dubious act, we have the right to make an approach concerning the money supposed to be owned by the Federal Government supported by law. They have not been able to extricate themselves on the issue.  We have a letter of invitation from NIBBS on the authority of the demand issues that we served to come for government collection; which is stamp duty that was already with them. So why is CBN stopping us from collecting what is due to government from sweeping into government coffers as earlier approved? How is CBN responsible for this? CBN regulates NIBBS, therefore, instructions have to be passed by CBN even though NIBBS invited us to come with NIPOST, but we couldn’t because NIPOST was involved in some judicial scams. But we were not interested in that, which was why we invited the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMAFAC). RMAFAC invited NIBBS and CBN, asking them to bring their records, but they ran away. CBN has been restricting NIBBS; the two are intertwined. CBN nominates the chairman of NIBBS, NIBBS is not owned by the Federal Government, it is a private sector bank. And CBN is there to control NIBBS, but CBN has refused to control them. CBN has refused to meet up with its responsibility on stamp duty as provided by Section 23 of the 1999 Act, and so we are holding CBN accountable. They made a mistake to think that the School of Banking Honours is a young school and cannot challenge this dubious act, forgetting that the man running the institution is an auditor/chartered accountant and has trained with the best institutions around the world.   Unremitted stamp duty revenue CBN, SGF, FIRS shun FOIA requests over N20trn stamp duty revenue Concerns as Wema Bank returns to regional status Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin