An MP has become the first sitting member of the parliament in nearly three decades to be jailed after she lied to police over a speeding ticket.  Solicitor Fiona Onasanya had denied being behind the wheel when her car was spotted being driven at 41mph in a 30mph zone, in July 2017.  The Peterborough MP was thrown out of the Labour Party after being convicted of perverting the course of justice.  She has been jailed for three months after a re-trial at the Old Bailey.  The court heard evidence Onasanya was texting as well as speeding, during the summer recess.  Onasanya is the first sitting MP to be jailed since Terry Fields was sentenced to 60 days for refusing to pay his £373 poll tax bill in 1991.  However, she has stated that she intends to appeal against her conviction.  Her brother Festus was jailed for 10 months for his involvement, after pleading guilty to the same charge.  Onasanya was elected as Labour MP for Peterborough in June 2017, six weeks before committing the offence, in Thorney, Cambridgeshire.  She had ousted Conservative Stewart Jackson, who had held the seat for 12 years.  While announcing her sentence, Mr Justice Stuart-Smith told Onasanya: “You have not simply let yourself down; you have let down those who look to you for inspiration, your party, your profession and Parliament.”  Her life as a new MP in 2017 was “extremely hectic and chaotic” and she had just been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis when police began to pursue her, he noted.  After Festus falsely filled out her Notice of Intended Prosecution (NIP), she made the “disastrous decision” to keep up the lie from November 2017, he said.  The prosecution told the court she went on to collude with her brother to avoid being subject to the speeding ticket. Onnoghen lied, pure and simple Surprising Glimpses from the British Elections Man, 25, kill 78-yr-old grandfather for ''having sex'' with his mother Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin