The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has promised to provide a level-playing field to all aspirants planning to use its platform for the upcoming Kogi and Bayelsa State governorship elections. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, made the promise on Monday in a statement issued to caution party members, supporters and the general public on the fake news being spread in the social media on the two coming elections. Issa-Onilu said the National Working Committee (NWC) would abide by the rules at every stage of the process of primary elections in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision for the country and APC’s continued effort towards deepening participatory democracy. The APC spokesman, who said relevant information and the official party guidelines for the respective elections will be released by the party through official channels in due course, advised that the fake news and quotes be ignored. “We had initially ignored the fake statements but it has become necessary to debunk the several fake quotes, which are increasingly gaining traction, particularly many of such statements being ascribed to the Party and the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “It should be noted that neither the party nor the National Chairman has made any statement at any forum regarding these elections. The numerous quotes being ascribed to the party and the National Chairman are mere fabrications intended for mischief. “APC has demonstrated absolute fidelity to the best democratic practices in the manners the party has conducted its affairs so far. “As a progressive party, we are focused on even doing better as we look forward to the commencement of new 4-year tenure,” the statement read. We’ll spring surprises in Kogi, Bayelsa polls – LP Assessing internal democracy in political parties Page 19 (Analysis) Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin