A seventeen-member transition committee set up to ensure smooth handover of power from the outgoing administration of Alhaji Abdullahi Galadima to the chairman-elect Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo has revealed that the incoming administration in Kuje area council will inherit a debt of N1 billion. Chairman of the committee, Alhaji Abdullahi Sabo, who submitted the report to the chairman-elect in Kuje on Saturday, said the debt burden was discovered after scrutinizing the documents provided by the outgoing administration. “We are able to find out that the outgoing APC administration is leaving behind a debt of over N1 billion and this shows that the incoming PDP administration has a lot to do, “ he said. He said the Local Education Authority (LEA) which was the life wire of education in the area was in total shambles, which he said required overhauling. The committee chairman said the outgoing APC administration had breached all the civil service rules and regulations, which he said was very disheartening and advised the incoming administration to do more in digging deep into activities of the outgoing administration. The chairman-elect, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, commended the members of the committee for doing a wonderful job without any comprise, saying he would study the committee’s report especially the recommendations in order to know the next step to take. Reacting, the outgoing chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, said liabilities he is leaving behind was less than N100 million, saying any other liabilities were inherited from the previous administration. Galadima, who spoke through his adviser on media and publicity, Haruna Usman, said contracts awarded by the outgoing administration and were completed had been paid for, except those that were still ongoing. Kuje chairman-elect sets 4-point agenda Kuje chairman-elect inaugurates 17-member transition c’ttee El-Rufa’i: Collapsed industries, debt beckon Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin