In the history of democratic system in Nigeria, two politicians have won elective positions while in incarceration. They are Senator Iyiola Omisore and a former Governor of Abia State, Theodore Orji.  Senator Iyiola Omisore A deputy governor of Osun State from 1999-2003, Iyiola Omisore ran into trouble waters following the gruesome murder of former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Federation, Bola Ige. The week preceding Ige’s death, the long-running feud between the then Osun State Governor, Bisi Akande and his deputy, Omisore had allegedly contributed gravely to the death of an Osun legislator at the time, Odunayo Olagbaju. An ally of Omisore, Olagbaju was said to have allegedly played a role in the humiliation of Ige at the Ooni of Ife’s palace few days earlier. A mob had attacked Ige during the chieftaincy investiture of the wife of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and lifted his cap. Several suspects were arrested following the shooting to death of Ige in Ibadan, Oyo State. However, fingers were pointing at Omisore, who was impeached and subsequently arrested on December 27, 2002 despite decamping to the then ruling political party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the Alliance for Democracy (AD). Even though he was still on trial, he was elected to the Senate to represent Osun East Senatorial District in April 2003 on the platform of the PDP defeating the incumbent AD candidate. He was released on bail on May 30, 2003 by an Ibadan High Court. Various people, including Omisore, were tried for their alleged involvement in the murder of Ige but without evidence to prove them guilty, were all acquitted.  Theodore Orji Chief Theodore Ahamefule Orji of the then Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) won his gubernatorial election in 2007 from prison becoming the first governor to be so elected from jail, the second to achieve the feat after Omisore. As at the time of electioneering campaigns, Orji was at the Kirikiri Maximum Prisons in Lagos awaiting trial for multiple count charges of money laundering, fraud and conspiracy. The EFCC accused him of being the conduit through which Abia State had been defrauded in the last eight years of Orji Uzor Kalu, whom he served as Chief of Staff. However, regardless of his confinement, Orji defeated Chief Onyema Ugochukwu of the PDP by 265, 289 to 136, 858 votes. He was subsequently granted bail few days to his swearing in on May 29, 2007.  Party faithful ask PDP to discipline Omisore for burning flags Why police invited Senator Omisore Omisore, Oke vie for Osun governorship ticket Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin