The 3rd National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the African Action Congress (AAC) on Monday suspended the party’s National Chairman and Publisher of Sahara Reporters Mr. Sowore Omoyele for six months over what it termed anti-party activities. The party named Dr. Leonard Nzenwa as Acting National Chairman and mandated him to act until the election of a substantive National Chairman or Omoyele’s reinstatement by the convention. A communiqué signed by the Acting National Chairman, Dr. Leonard Nzenwa and the Deputy National Secretary, Abayomi Francis Olufemi and made available to newsmen at the end of the meeting in Abuja, said Omoyele was suspended because of his “deliberate inability” to convene constitutionally mandated quarterly meetings of the NEC and other organs of the party. The NEC also said it suspended Omoyele for “allegations of anti-party activities, financial misappropriation, allowing inflow of foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same in contravention of Section 225 (3)(4) of the 1999 Constitution (As amended).” Similarly, the NEC suspended the National Youth Leader, Buhari Ahmed; Ex-Officio, Abimiku Kukumah; National Youth Deputy Coordination, Sydney Usman; Deputy National Treasurer, Elanu Inalegy; National Treasurer, Ajiegbe, Oluwafemi; Deputy National Chairman (South West), Ogunlana Jacob; Deputy National Organising Secretary, Murtala Adamu and Deputy National Youth Leader, Abdullahi Mohammed also for six months over alleged anti-party activities. The NEC unanimously resolved to refer the allegations of anti-party activities against the national chairman to the National Convention, the highest decision-making organ of the party for further action. The Acting National Chairman of the party, Dr Leonard Nzenwa in his acceptance speech said he would not disappoint the party. Sowore unveils new party AD suspends national chair over ‘gross misconduct’ 2019: Meet the newcomers who may change the tide Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin