The second Intra-African Trade Fair (IATF2020) scheduled for Kigali, the capital of Rwanda, from September 1 to 7, 2020, will target the execution of intra-African trade deals worth more than $40 billion, Prof. Benedict Oramah, President of the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), has announced. Prof. Oramah was speaking in Kigali at the signing of the hosting agreement for IATF2020 by the Government of Rwanda, Afreximbank and the African Union (AU). The Rwandan Minister of Trade and Industry, Soraya Hakuziyaremye, signed for the government while Prof. Oramah signed for Afreximbank and Amb. Albert Muchanga, Commissioner for Trade and Industry of the AU, signed for the organisation during the ceremony held at the Transform Africa Summit taking place in Kigali. Prof. Oramah said for the IATF2020, which is being organised by Afreximbank in collaboration with the AU and hosted by Rwanda, the partners had set themselves the ambitious target of attracting more than 1,000 exhibitors and hosting over 10,000 buyers and conference participants from over 50 countries. He said the trade fair would build on the tremendous progress made in the first Intra-African Trade Fair held in Cairo in 2018 to achieve more far-reaching results in terms of impact in promoting intra-African trade. Prof. Oramah who noted that, “52 countries have signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and 22 have ratified it, paving the way for the agreement to enter into force,” said IAATF2020 would include an IATF Trade and Investment Forum which would look at the practical challenges affecting AfCFTA implementation and provide solutions on how to address them and exploit the benefits offered by the agreement. Amb. Muchanga said the partners in the IATF had succeeded in creating a brand and that the trade fair was a platform for sharing trade information and which brought together buyers and sellers and created access to financing for businesses. He announced that the AU was establishing an African Trade Observatory which would gather trade-related information from African countries and be a resource for anybody who wanted to trade with the continent as a source of general trade statistics. Afreximbank, Securiport sign $15m financing agreement for Juba Airport upgrade As Nigeria prepares to sign free trade pact Why Nigeria trades less within Africa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin