A socio-cultural group Ilorin Emirate Descendant Progressive Union (IEDPU) has accused Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed of Kwara state of desperation in making sure that a particular candidate emerge as the next Vice Chancellor of the state owned university.  It would be recalled that the governor, on Tuesday, appointed Professor Kenneth Adeyemi as acting vice chancellor of the state owned university and directed the vice chancellor, Professor Abdulrasheed Na’Allah, to hand over to the acting vice chancellor and proceed on terminal leave as his tenure expires in July 2019.  Addressing journalist on Thursday in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital, the Ag. National President of the union, Alhaji Yahaya O. Ahmed said since the issue unfold on Tuesday, the union has received so many complaints from different people who were clearly disturbed by the decision of the out-going Government of Kwara State to send the Vice-Chancellor of the State University on compulsory leave.  “We have equally noticed that the administration of Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed appeared to be too desperate in making sure that a particular candidate emerges as the next Vice-Chancellor of the University not minding the thinking, positions and assessment of the dully constituted Governing Council invested with the authority to oversee and recommend worthy candidates for the position to the Visitor of the University.  “The reason for that desperation is nebulous and therefore, unacceptable to the good people of Ilorin Emirate. Our Union and, indeed, the peace-loving people of Ilorin Emirate also find it extremely suspcious the drafting of septugenarian Prof. Mathew to serve as the Ag.Vice-Chancellor of KWASU despite the presence of two active Deputy Vice-Chancellors between whom one could have been selected to act if the out-going administration actually mean well.  “Is it because the imopsed Ag.VC has the capacity to do the dirty job of endorsing questionable documents, ruthlessly dealt with staff members from a segment of the State and paving the way for the emergence of his god-son, who is also the anointed candidate for the office of the Vice-Chancellor of the institution?  “We do not want to believe that all these acts of illegalities are being executed just to punish Prof.Na’Allah for his principled refusal to play ball on some financial matters.Our conviction is that there are always a better way of addressing issues no matter what or who is involved.”  Ahmed said any decisions taken by anyone, group or authority without strict adherence to the laid down procedure cannot stand the test of time. Adding that attempt to remove Prof.Na’Allah, while by-passing the Governing Council of the University, is a negation of civility, legitimacy and righteousness.It should, therefore, be reversed without further delay in the interest of peace and justice.  He appealed to the governor to call his officials to order by refraining from any act or action that will set a segment of the State against another and possibly tarnish the good image of the State, which  her industrious people worked to build and sustain over the years.  Students protest against removal of Kwara varsity VC NANS, SUG protest removal of Kwara State University VC Governing council dares Gov. Ahmed over appointment of Ag VC for KWASU Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin