The Gombe State chapter of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) has called on Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo to pay the accumulated gratuity to hundreds of pensioners that retired from service.   Speaking on Wednesday at the 2019 May Day celebration held at the Pantami Township Stadium, the state Chairman of the NLC, Comrade Mohammed Adamu Musa, said the union was compelled to call the attention of the state government to address the lingering issue of gratuity payment.   “We are compelled to call for the immediate the payment of accumulated gratuity to our senior citizens after serving the state meritoriously.   We also appeal for the enrolment of local government retirees into pension in order to reduce their sufferings and enjoy the fruits of their labour,” he said.   He further urged the government to reinstate workers who were found not guilty of committing any offence and cleared by the state staff verification committee.   Comrade Musa also called for the payment of professional allowances and leave transport grant to local government employees and primary school teachers.   The NLC chairman added would continue to struggle for the implementation of the N30, 000 minimum wage in the state as soon as the circular is released.   In his address, Governor Dankwambo promised that the state government will soon engage the leaders of the NLC on the implementation of the N30, 000 new minimum wage.   Represented by the state deputy governor, Mr Charles Iliya, the said the government will work with the NLC to resolve the issue.   “I have listened to the labour union’s demand and I assure you that government would continue to work in partnership with the leadership of the NLC towards resolving this important issue,” he said. ‘  The Minister of Labour and Productivity, Mr Chris Ngige represented by the state Controller of Labour, Mrs Nancy Samuel Ada appealed to Dankwambo to pay all outstanding dues of workers before handing over to the incoming government.  Despite Paris refund, over 10 states owe salaries, pensions Shettima not owing salaries, pensions, gratuities--NLC Report on salaries, gratuities unfair to Shettima – NLC