As a Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) retiree who is sufficiently familiar with the merits of the Scheme, I can say that withdrawing 75 per cent  as a lump sum will not augur well for its retirees. . I recollect the privilege of attending one of the meetings chaired by Alhaji Fola Adeola, the reputable banker, when his team was working on the Scheme’s modality. I even had the courage, in the midst of the senior experts on the assignment, to say that the former British Prime Minister, Mrs. Margaret Thatcher, introduced a version of Contributory Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom. The real point is that the first paragraph in which I described my relationship with the Contributory Pension Scheme has placed me in a strong position to appreciate the implications of taking 75 per sum as lump sum from one’s Retirement Savings Account. Doing so may lead to a financial catastrophe that will defeat one key feature of the CPS:  the assurance that money is available to pay the retirees for years, probably up to the time for the ultimate retirement. And one of the strongest justifications for introducing the CPS is the desire to give at least basic financial security to the contributors in their estimated life span in retirement. Taking away three quarters of their savings seems to be a direct opposite of the intent of the Pension Reform in its entirety. It will leave the retirees with an insufficient cash pot to live on “in minimum comfort.” A single withdrawal of 75 per cent from RSAs by retirees will equally defeat the essence and destroy the soul and purpose of the CPS. It will deplete the quantum of cash the country can benefit from through borrowing to finance critical infrastructure, as is the case today. The private sector, which benefits from the pensioners’ savings, will be deprived of that financial window as the 75 per cent policy takes its toll on the trillions of Naira that would have been available. It will also ruin the financial comfort CPS promises contributors through phased or periodic withdrawal from individual’s RSA. But there is the view that if withdrawing that large lump sum “comes with the responsibility to invest wisely and prudently to generate the returns necessary to maintain your monthly payments,” says an expert, it can be beneficial to the retiree. Could be so in jurisdictions other than Nigeria. In a country where cases of duping pensioners to part with their stipends by criminal-minded individuals were recorded, many a 75 per cent withdrawer may be swindled of his all-working-life savings through enticing, but phoney, business proposals. The swindling can be by offering an apparently promising investment scheme that was primarily conceived to benefit its proponent than an elderly “investor.” This point is important as stories of highly-placed individuals falling prey to such swindlers were reported by the media. So, the National Assembly should be permanently wary of legislating a 75 per cent lump sum withdrawal to protect the elders from crafty dupes. Agreeing to 75 per cent withdrawal is a guarantee for old age poverty for many retirees should they be tempted or forced by law to opt for that financial suicide. They could be tempted to splurge it on items that are not essential, or on grandchildren who might not know the pains and self-denials on which the RSA became a cash pot. Once the cash pot becomes empty, most elderly retirees will feel the severe effect of deprivation. This can be glaring in   our country where the social net seems to be porous and retirees excluded from accessing basic health care through the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). The Acting Director-General of PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, got it right when she opposed the 75 per cent lump sum withdrawal. She should firmly stay on this course. Dr. Afolayan: Retirees deserve gratuity under Contributory Pension Scheme ‘Retirees will become liabilities if allowed 75% of pension savings’ PenOp kicks against proposed 75 per cent lump sum withdrawals Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin