A socio-political group under the auspices of PDP Concerned Unity Group has called on the controversial acting Chairman, Plateau state chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chris Hassan to vacate the secretariat of the party and allow former Minister for Youth and Sports, Damishi Sango-led leadership to spearhead the affairs of the party in the state. It would be recalled that the State Executive Council (SEC) of the party had suspended Sango and his Deputy, Amos Gombi over alleged misappropriation of campaign funds and funds meant for bringing succour to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state. The SEC then ratified the suspension of Sango and his Deputy before appointing former Vice Chairman, (North), Chris Hassan, to man the affairs of the party. But a spokesman of the group, Hon. Dakas Nathaniel, in an interview with journalists at the party’s secretariat on Tuesday said that the suspension of Sango was an affront to a constituted authority and as such poises a worthy cause to meet a resistance. The group further said that Sango should be allowed to remain the chairman of the party until the determination of investigation by the national working committee of PDP. The group added that they have completed arrangements to lead Sango to reclaim his office on Friday. He said, “We have called you here to help us tell those illegally occupying the PDP Secretariat led by Chris Hassan who claimed to have impeached an authentic Chairman, Sango to vacate the office on or before Friday, because we are going to escort Sango to reclaim his office on Friday.” But while addressing SEC members recently, the Acting Chairman of the party, Hon. Chris Hassan, said that the suspension was in line with the provision of the constitution of the PDP. He said that based on the grave allegations levelled against Sango, the suspension would further allow the national leadership of the party to wade into the matter. Plateau PDP suspends chair, deputy over alleged diversion of funds Plateau PDP sets up c’ttee to probe suspended chair, deputy Plateau PDP to probe suspended Chairman, Deputy Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin