The North West Wing of the Coalition of Northern Youth Organizations, CNYO, on Thursday held a peaceful rally in Kaduna and called on Senator Danjuma Goje to declare for the presidency of the Senate in the Ninth Assembly. The youths who marched in the streets of Kaduna, described Senator Goje as the most qualified Senator to hold the position among all contenders from North-east region. Speaking at the rally, chairman of the group, Engineer Hassan Idris said the group will not accept any endorsement of any candidate from the North-east region outside Goje. “We owe it a sense of duty to demand and insist that, the contenders to the seat of the Senate Presidency must subject themselves to a level playing democratic process of equal opportunity. Importantly, “The North West wing of the Coalition of Northern Youth Organizations is calling on all concerned persons to prevail on Senator Danjuma Goje to declare and run for the Presidency of the 9th Senate,” he said. Idris described Senator Goje as a better and more prepared for the office and stands taller in the race than others. The Chairman who handed over a letter on the group’s position to All Progressives Congress APC North West zonal party officials said their decision to support Senator Goje is in the interest of democracy asking him to forward their position to the national secretariat of the party. ‎In his short remarks after receiving the letter, Administrative Assistant to the Secretary APC North West office, Malam Suleiman Adamu told the group that their letter will be delivered to the party’s North West secretary who will later forward it to the National Secretariat for action as requested. “I receive your letter and I will make sure I deliver it to the Secretary who will forward it to the National Secretariat. I wish you best of luck,” he said. 9th Senate Presidency Race: Why Danjuma Goje is the man to beat JUST IN: Northeast Forum, others endorse Goje for Senate President, write Oshiomhole Senate Presidency: Goje’s imminent entry brings new twist Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin