*demand N50million ransom A traditional chief in Osun state and head of local hunters in Ibokun, Obokun Local Government Area, Chief Amusat Laleye Dusin has been kidnapped and taken to unknown destination. Chief Amusa who is the Tirimi of (Chief hunter) of Ibokunland was kidnapped between Esaodo and Ilare at about 10:00pm on Monday evening when he was coming from a party in company of a lady, Mrs Tayo George and another man, Mr Olusegun Oladipupo. Oladipupo eventually escaped from the kidnappers while they took Amusa and Tayo away. Speaking with Daily Trust, Oladipupo said the kidnappers wore military camouflage and that he noticed that they were Fulani. According to Oladipupo, “They stopped the car and ordered us to get down. They told the three of us to kneel down. The kidnappers were many, may be 15 in number. They carried guns and also have cutlasses. Their focus was on the Chief hunter; I just decided to run away and I took off. “The lady followed me but she was recapture while I escaped. Honestly, there is need to strengthen security in this community and in the state as a whole.” A member of Osun State House of Assembly representing Obokun constituency, Honourable Bosun Oyintiloye, while speaking on the incident said the state government is fully aware of the development and that security agencies are on top of the situation. As at the time of filing this report, Daily Trust learnt from very reliable sources that the kidnappers have contacted the relatives of the chief hunter and demanded N50 million for the release of the 50-year-old man. The spokesman of Ilare Community, Mr Tope Abiola, in a chat with Daily Trust described the incident as worrisome and urged the state government and security agencies in Osun state to address the ugly trend of kidnapping in the state. He said over 100 local hunters have been deployed to comb all the area where the chief hunter was kidnapped and that they could not find him. The Police Public Relations Officer for the Osun State Police Command, Mrs Folashade Odoro, said rescue efforts are ongoing and assured that the chief hunter and the other woman would be rescued. The security situation in the state has become worrisome in recent time as residents said they no longer feel safe. It would be recalled that a lecturer of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife was kidnapped in the state recently and his family paid over N5million as ransom before he was released. Also, an Ibadan-based lawyer was kidnapped in Osun on his way to the Appeal Court in Akure, Ondo state recently. Some staff of Osun State College of Technology, Esa-Oke and Bowen University, Iwo were also kidnapped recently. Hunters, police rescue kidnapped nurses in Ekiti Police rescue 3 kidnap victims in Ondo Kidnapping: What will save the North? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin