Jamiu Abiola, the Shettima Rashidi of Borno is a son of late Chief MKO Abiola, the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election that was annulled. In this interview, he speaks on his support for President Muhammadu Buhari, the country’s challenges and why he feels Nigerians will witness the change they seek through Buhari.  Daily Trust: What motivated you to be part of the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO)? Jamiu Abiola: I am part of BSO under the leadership of Dr. Mahmood Abubakar and Col. Hameed Ali (Rtd). I am also part of the women and youth presidential campaign team, and recently I was appointed into the sub-committee on accommodation for the presidential inauguration. For a long time, I had lost hope in democracy as the vehicle that will move African countries forward. My parents sacrificed their lives for democracy and I was discouraged by the fact that most people that got power were using it to enrich themselves and making life more difficult for the masses. So, I lost a lot of hope. But at the same time, I always believed that Buhari would become president. As far back as 2002, my brother, Lekan and I supported his candidacy. We invited him to my father’s house and pledged our support for him. That is how long we have been part of the Buhari mission. As luck would have it, in 2015, he became president, and when I saw that there was a lot of fake news going around in the build-up to the 2019 elections, I decided to join the BSO, then I was subsequently appointed member of the women and youth presidential campaign team. So, I was actively involved in the campaign for the president because I wanted to make sure Nigerians must hear the truth from someone like me whose mother was killed for democracy, who doesn’t have any reason to cover up for anybody. Let them know that the president is the best and only viable option and he has won the election. So, I was motivated because I believe he is the person that can carry this democracy to the next level. DT: Under Buhari, people are still crying about insecurity, hunger, lack of jobs. How do you defend this? Abiola: It’s very simple. When you see somebody from outside, you may say that  person is sick, but you don’t know exactly how sick the person is. When Gen. Buhari took over, he knew that the country had a problem. The situation of the country was very grave. He discovered that the country was like an AIDS patient. And you know how it is when you have that situation, by the time you cross over to it, it becomes almost impossible for you to solve the problem. So, it now takes a man of superior integrity, discipline, foresight and wisdom like Gen. Buhari to remedy the situation. The country had already fallen apart before he took over. The insecurity you are seeing is a fall-out of many years of corruption, stealing, looting. Everything has a consequence and everything is coming out now. But Buhari is developing the infrastructure of the country so that people will be empowered enough to walk the way out of poverty. He is tackling drug abuse by putting a seasoned administrator like Gen. (Buba) Marwa to be in charge of the committee. I believe in a matter of time, with all that he has put in place, we shall see a significant improvement if we believe in him and do the right thing. DT: Some do not like his policies because of perhaps, his failure to inject new blood that will help him address these challenges. What is your view? Abiola: In life, every step everyday counts and I think as a person, he is adapting to the situation on ground. The situation in Nigeria is very difficult and precarious which is why it has to take a lot of patience, a lot of critical analysis and assessment. And it is very difficult to do all of these if you keep changing from one person to another. You want to know what exactly the problem is. Now he is back, and I believe he is going to have the right people as well to fix the nation. DT: Do you think Nigerians will have to wait long before they have a new cabinet considering what happened during Mr. President’s first term where it took him six months to name his cabinet? Abiola: There was no proper handover in 2015, and of course, when he won the election, apart from his popularity, a lot of people played key roles and some of these people too, he had to consult with them. So, that period was a distinct period. It will not take him that long this time and Nigerians will see what he is actually doing for them. DT: Your father would have been the president in 1993. What was his vision for Nigeria and do you think if he was president he would have done things differently? Abiola: My father’s vision for Nigeria was masses-oriented. He was more interested in taking care of the masses because he believed that if you don’t take care of the very many poor people, you cannot protect the very few rich people. So, he was a masses-oriented person and that was his agenda. Buhari is also a masses-oriented president because he came up with many programmes that target the poor like Tradermoni and feeding 9.2 million children every day. They have a robust programme on infrastructure in schools and they have assured everyone that no child will be left behind. Therefore, my father would have loved to see the masses faring well. It is very unfortunate that the people Buhari took over from left the country in a very precarious situation and that is why people are suffering. DT: Members of your family had been silent for long until recently, why? Abiola: When it comes to politics, especially what happened (death of parents), it is very painful. You know that it is not easy when a family wins an election after spending more than $200m and the election is cancelled, and my mother was killed, do you know that when my mother was killed, my father was sitting in prison and they came with a newspaper and gave it to him and said, ‘We have an article for you” and they put it in front of him, and he saw that my mother had been shot in the head and they left him alone in that room for three days. So, you can imagine what such a family has gone through? There is definitely no way you can expect them to come out and be talking about politics. It was when President Muhammadu Buhari decided that he was going to name June 12 as Democracy Day after my father, that I in particular became very supportive and vocal because that really touched my heart. I have written a book on that to keep my father’s memory growing and my mission is to make sure that people know the truth. Now we are telling the people the truth about Buhari’s government, just to keep democracy growing.  When he did what he did for my father, I became more vocal. I stood up and said if Nigerians were going to vote, let them vote based on the knowledge of the truth and let them know that it is not his fault the way we are now, but a mistake of the past. We all have a role to play to make this country great because it is not a tree that makes a forest, it is trees that make a forest. DT: People have been setting agenda for him. What would you tell him? Abiola: My agenda for him is for him to do what he wants to do, which is to do the right thing, and for us to help him to do the right thing. We have to know that there is no way a country will develop without the people of that country. There is no way we will follow corrupt leaders and be hailing them and at the end of the day, we think that Mr. President, because he is not corrupt, is going to make everything work. We have to change the way we think, change the way we act, change the way we analyse, change the way we criticise. We have to criticise positively and bring solutions and not just blind criticisms. DT: Some people have said Mr. President is terribly sick, but he is now back to the country. What do you make of Nigerians and fake news about their leaders? Abiola: The issue of fake news is a terrible phenomenon. We should be very careful and we have to stop fake news otherwise it is enough to pull this country down. The perception that we have about this country through fake news is going to actually pull this country down.  Because some people wish to do good things but they feel discouraged and demoralised because of fake news. But God is in control and Nigeria will come out of the woes sooner than later. DT: June 12 is around the corner. What do you make of it? Abiola: June 12 means a lot to me. As we all know, June 12 is now Democracy Day. I am just very happy that what my parents laid their lives for has produced a democratic government that has come to stay. We have been in democracy from 1999 and this is 2019. This is exactly 20 years of democracy. This wouldn’t have been easy if not because of the sacrifices we have made. It would have pained me if both of them died and this has not happened. So, we are forging ahead and we will definitely surmount all our challenges as a nation. Obasanjo reaps on my father’s blood but failed to recognise him– Jamiu Abiola Good life beckons in Nigeria under Buhari  – Fagbemi We’ll stand up to defend democracy –Fashola Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin