The outgoing governor of Ogun state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has said he had governed the state “fairly and equitably” in his eight years in government, declaring that “I am at peace with my creator.” Amosun spoke in Abeokuta at the weekend during the ninth edition of Ramadan Special Iftar organised by the state government, with the theme “Equity, Fairness and Justice: The Role of Muslims in National Integration.” The governor pointed out that he would be leaving the state more economically viable having been “rated number two” in Nigeria. “To the glory of God, Ogun state now, whatever indices they use, they will say we are second. When we came in, Ogun state was rated 29th position. Today, within eight years, we are second,” Amosun said. He also remarked that the call for national integration would only be feasible when the spirit of fairness, just and equity are entrenched among the citizens. “In all that we do all time, we must fear God. We must be fair, just and equitable to all. To the glory of God, I have done that and I am at peace with my creator. I came, I saw and to the glory of God, we have conquered. We are leaving Ogun state better than we met it,” the governor said. Earlier in his lecture, the Chief Imam of University of Ibadan Muslim Community, Prof. Oloyede AbdulRahmon said without tolerance and acceptance of religious differences, achieving national integration would be difficult. “If my girl child puts on hijab, will it affect your children? Will it bring discomfort to your child? We must be allowed to practice our religions and accept that there are differences. If not, the national integration may be difficult to achieve. And the peace that we pray for, I pray it won’t become a scarce commodity,” Abdulrahmon said. Inside Amosun, Oshiomhole’s endless verbal war Ogun 2019: It is battle between APC and APM Amosun dares Oshiomhole, says Ogun APC excos will complete tenure Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin