FCT resident doctors decry increasing spate of assault on members The National Association of Resident Doctors of Nigeria (NARD) has expressed concern over the spate of assaults on its members in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Dr. Roland Aigbovo, the chairman of the association in the FCT, expressed the concern in a statement on Thursday. Aigbovo said the spate of the assaults on his colleagues while on their legitimate duties was becoming alarming and worrisome. He stated that doctors and other health workers merely carrying out essential duties in the overall interest and well-being of patients had become victims of unwarranted hostility. According to him, there were some incidences recently where doctors on duty were assaulted, citing a most recent incident recorded at the Maitama District Hospital, Abuja. He said, “A female doctor at the Maitama District Hospital, Abuja, was assaulted by a patient’s relation.’’ He said the patient admitted as an emergency case few days earlier was operated on to save her life and that of her baby. He explained that but due to financial constraint, the patient was unable to pay for the surgery and prescribed drugs, which led to some minor complications that needed urgent medical treatment. “But the patient’s relation insisted on taking the patient home, which prompted the doctor to ask him to sign a medical undertaking before his request was granted, but he refused. “This led to the doctor informing the security unit, the relation got infuriated and then beat up both the doctor and the security personnel,” he said. Aigbovo, however, said the patient’s relation was arrested, taken to court and remanded in prison. He said the association would do everything possible to prosecute anybody who assaulted its members, adding that it was disheartening that any normal person could beat up a female doctor. He said such cases would be pursued to their logical conclusion to serve as deterrent to others who might want to assault its members while on duty. He added that, “Doctors and other health professionals should be respected and not assaulted no matter the provocation.” Aigbovo said there were laid down channels for dispute resolution rather than physically assaulting health personnel. (NAN) ARD vows “everything possible” to prosecute assault on doctors Doctors allege assault by health unionists FCT doctors hail FG for paying arrears, appeal for budget review Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin