Dangote Cement Plc (DCP), the largest listed company on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), has released its 2018 Dangote Cement Sustainability Report, outlining its sustainability initiatives, activities and achievements during the 2018 financial year. The report was unveiled yesterday at the maiden edition of “Facts Behind the Sustainability Report (FBSR)”, an interactive forum created by NSE to further promote Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance and reporting among listed companies in Nigeria, in line with its newly introduced NSE Sustainability Disclosures Guidelines. With major operations in three locations in Nigeria and across 14 African countries, the organisation is enhancing its positive impact on the economy, environment and society through an integrated approach that mainstreams sustainability across the entire business. This process includes publishing its maiden GRI Standards-compliant sustainability report. Speaking during the event, Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Engr. Joseph Makoju, said, “We have identified and are leveraging sustainability to drive regulatory compliance, proactive risk management and building trust and goodwill in the countries, markets and communities where we operate.” The Chief Executive Officer of the NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, said “better ESG reporting is key to strengthening capital markets and achieving a sustainable global economy. The exchange is strategically positioned to influence the adoption of globally recognised sustainability standards by Nigerian businesses, and we continue to highlight the importance of sustainable business practices in delivering value to our listed companies and investing public to support economic growth.” Dangote Cement unveils new sustainability report Transparency key to business transformation page 25 Capital Market Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin