The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the presentation of a leadership award to President Muhammadu Buhari by governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is a shameful endorsement of failure. The PDP described it as the height of deception and a spit on the graves of victims of unrestrained killings and bloodletting in various parts of our nation. In a statement on Friday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said the award was another “failed image-laundering and botched endorsement” by the Buhari Presidency, which was being confronted by the weight of public rejection for its failures and the rigging of the February 23, presidential elections.” The party said it was totally disgraceful that Mr. President’s handlers could conjure such “scandalous whitewashing project to gloat on Nigerians” at a time Nigerians were extremely hurting over the prevailing economic hardship and hunger among others. “The PDP holds that by allowing themselves to be used for such image laundering for President Buhari in the face of his failures to find solution for the killings and kidnappings in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Taraba, Adamawa, Kaduna, Katsina and other states of the federation, the APC governors have again exhibited their party’s unpardonable insensitivity and disdain for Nigerians.” “It is disturbing that at a time genuine leaders are exerting themselves for solutions to the myriads of crisis plaguing our nation, those elected on the platform of the APC are busy playing to gallery and acting scripts while our nation continue to slide; the very reason Nigerians voted for Atiku Abubakar on February 23, as their preferred presidential candidate.” “The Buhari Presidency and the APC have chosen to engage in endless unprofitable celebrations in the safety of Aso Villa while Nigerians are left at the mercies of bandits, kidnappers, marauders and insurgents in their homes and workplaces.” “The PDP counsels President Buhari to end the circus at the Presidency and face the stark reality of the dejection, despondency and misery Nigerians have been subjected to due to his incompetence as well as insensitivity to the plight of the citizens,” the party said. Arewa Pastors visit on Buhari "stage-managed" PDP says (video included) Endorsements that will shape 2019 polls Be just to Amaechi, APC chieftain tells senators Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin