President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday inaugurated the governing board of the newly established North East Development Commission (NEDC) to fast track the rebuilding of the region  ravaged by the Boko Haram insurgency. The board chaired by retired Major General Paul Tarfa was inaugurated at the council chamber of the State House, Abuja, before the commencement of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. The commission has Mohammed Alkali as Managing Director, Musa Yashi, Executive Director Humanitarian Affairs; Muhammed Jawa, Executive Director Administration and Finance and Omar Mohammed, Executive Director Operations. Others are David Kente, member representing North East Zone; Asmau Mohammed, member representing North West Zone; Benjamin Adanyi, member representing North Central Zone, Olawale Oshun, member representing South West Zone; Dr. T. Ekechi member representing South East; and Obasuke McDonald,  member representing South South. The president said the commission is charged with the responsibility of among other things, receiving and managing funds allocated by the Federal Government of Nigeria and donors for the resettlement, rehabilitation, integration and construction of roads, houses and business premises of victims of insurgency as well as taking care of the menace of poverty, illiteracy, ecological problems and other related environmental and developmental challenges in the North East States. Buhari said the establishment of the Commission was in fulfilment of the pledge of this Administration to the people of  the North East Geo-Political Zone and as part of the strategy for regenerating the socio-economic potentials of the Geo-Poiitical Zone after the devastation of the Boko-Haram insurgency. BREAKING: Buhari inaugurates NEDC board FG appoints board for SEC Senate confirms Buhari's nominees for Northeast commission Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin