Some analysts have advised the Federal Government on the modalities to fund the national carrier project. This stemmed from recent comments by the immediate former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to the effect that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) was divided on the funding modalities. According to Amaechi, while some ministers wanted the funding to be provided entirely by government, others wanted limited government funding in the proposed enterprise. But 24 hours after, the former Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, disagreed with Amaechi, saying he was probably quoted out of context, indicating that government had provided funding for takeoff of the project in the 2019 budget. Daily Trust reports that Sirika had consistently maintained that the new national carrier would be private-sector driven. Group Capt. John Ojikutu, an aviation analyst, said he aligned with the school of thought that government’s involvement in the airline should be minimal. He said, “I believe that this was the position of the Minister of State for Aviation last week Friday when he said the Federal Government would not have more than 10 per cent share in the airline. “All along, this has been my position which I have shared with him ab initio. We need a national carrier not a government airline. My position is that we need foreign technical and financial investors (40/50 per cent); Nigerian technical and financial investors (20 per cent); federal and state governments (10 per cent) and the Nigerian public (20/30 per cent). This is a national carrier; not a government airline.” President of the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), Comrade Galadima Abdenigo, also reiterated that the best way to go about it was through a Private Public-Partnership (PPP) arrangement. He, however, said government should look at the best way of going about it based on the resources available to it. Abdenigo said irrespective of the option adopted by the government, the benefits of having a national carrier could not be overemphasised. “The benefits are enormous. It would reduce the cost of travels; ensuring the nation benefits from the Bilateral Air Service Agreement (BASA) that is largely untapped,” he said. Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, another aviation analyst, said policy inconsistency was driving away investors in the nation’s aviation industry. According to him, without improving the “processes and the systems” in Nigeria, the effort to attract investors for the national carrier would continue to be a mirage. “I am not surprised the cabinet is divided on the modalities. I am also not surprised that for almost four years, we have not moved beyond the name unveiling at Farnborough,” he said. FG budgets N47bn to continue Nigeria Air project How national carrier divided ministers — Amaechi We didn’t spend $8.8m on national carrier – Sirika Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin