A former Governor of old Sokoto State, Malam Yahaya Abdulkarim and the immediate past Minister of Communications, Alhaji Adebayo Shittu, have backed the call for the resignation of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole of APC National Chairman. Mal. Abdulkarim said, “I am 100 per cent in support of the call for Oshiomhole to step aside for APC to have good leadership that will lead to the party’s progress.” It would be recalled that the Deputy National Chairman of the APC, Sen. Lawal Shu’aibu, had a few days ago called on Oshiomhole to resign. Abdulkarim noted that Oshiomhole met APC leading in about 26 states and expressed concern over the number of states the party lost in the last general elections. “We lost Bauchi, Benue, Adamawa, Oyo, Imo and Zamfara states. It’s too much,” he lamented. “Oshiomhole is supposed to lead the party to capture more states, to give the party the right leadership and direction. The essence of leadership is to encourage dialogue and negotiation. Oshiomhole is not doing that,” he said. The former governor stressed that the essence of politics and political party was to win elections, saying anything short of that, then the party had lost its essence. “Now APC has Federal Government and other strong structures, but the party is losing control in six states; it’s too much blow for members to bear,” Abdulkarim said. He added that, “I am advising him to be a gentleman and step aside for the person that can give proper leadership for the party, otherwise in 2023 when the tenure of President Buhari ends, if care is not taken, we will lose more.” A good leader, he pointed out, should be able to unite party supporters and loyalists, resolve internal differences and treat all party members impartially. He reiterated that Oshiomhole failed to do that. For his part, the former communications minister Shittu, who was disqualified from contesting the APC governorship ticket in Oyo State,  said “The truth is with Oshiomhole this party would go down by the time President Muhammadu Buhari finishes his 2nd term.” Quit APC chairmanship, former Gov Abdulkarim tells Oshiomhole APC Dep chair tells Oshiomhole to step aside Oshiomhole: 40 days of  ‘combative’ leadership Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin