Television personality, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu has left fans stunned with the inclusion of metal neckties in some of his recent outfits.
The spotlight is now being beamed on Princewill Ohaji, designer of the metal necktie a.k.a `Drip Tie” News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ebuka has been spotted on several occasions with the eye-catching, unusually shaped neckties which were designed by Ohaji’s design outfit, ‘Drip Tie’. The luxurious ties recently debuted in Nigeria and is the country’s ‘first metal and unconventional necktie line’ which designer, Ohaji described as an effortless addition to classic outfits. In an interview with NAN on Tuesday, Ohaji acknowledged Ebuka’s influence on growing the necktie trend and thanked the stylish BBNaija host for trusting and providing “authenticity for the Drip Tie brand.” He said, “I would also like to use this opportunity to thank arguably the most stylish man in Nigeria for his support. He made our numbers go up and people no longer worry about our brand authenticity.” Speaking on the inspiration behind the neckties, Ohaji, who is an International Law Practitioner and Style Influencer said, “Since my third year in school, I had started working on creating a fashion brand and researched far and wide for many concepts.” “They were all great and I started to save because I knew it wasn’t going to easy to start so early. I’m a fan of corporate outfits and bumped into amazing tie concepts on the internet that were in other countries and I checked for where to get in Nigeria.” “The ties were not available in Nigeria and I went on to check other African brands but couldn’t find them. That was when the thought of starting my own metal necktie line came to me.” He also noted that the neckties are not really very different from the regular neck ties but are more luxurious, do not require knotting or washing and last longer. In his words, fashion keeps evolving and Nigeria should strive to be at the forefront. He said, “The world is moving fast and everyday an unconventional concept is made. The entrepreneurial spirit just pushed me to go for it and after so many sleepless nights, I can say it’s going great now.” (NAN) Style, much more important than designer tag on outfits — Jay Manuel Another Nigerian allegedly killed by South African Police Ties restrict blood flow, reduce work performance – Study Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin