There are strong indications that the Nigerian Ports Authority may have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Messers AP Moller Capital (APMC) Limited for the construction of a new road that would link Lagos Ports Complex, Tin-Can ports to Shagamu in Ogun State. Daily Trust exclusively learnt that the road when completed would be solely dedicated to articulated trucks carrying containers in and out of Apapa to ease congestion in the area. It was learnt that the move is to ensure seamless movement of cargoes An official who disclosed this in confidence said with the signing of the multi-billion naira MoU, the site has been handed over to Messers AP Moller Capital (APMC) Limited to commence construction of the road. Daily Trust also learnt that part of the MoU includes the construction of a Jetty and a truck holding bay to facilitate the movement of cargo by barge from the sea ports in Apapa and Tin-Can Island. The Authority is confident that this initiative in addition to others that have been put in place or which the Authority is working on alongside other stakeholders will resolve the congestion on access roads into the ports pending the completion of multimodal projects that are under construction. The General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, of NPA, Jatto A Adams, confirmed to Daily Trust that the MoU signed by the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority and Messers AP Moller Capital (APMC) Limited is part of the Authority’s determination to end the congestion caused by the dilapidation of access roads into the Lagos Port Complex and the Tin Can Island Port in Apapa. Adamu said it was part of series of consultation which NPA had with a wide spectrum of relevant stakeholders on ways to end the disruption that the traffic situation has brought on the national economy, personal businesses and the lives of residents. He said at the end of the consultations, a proposal was submitted by APMC to NPA on possible solutions to the seemingly intractable situation. He explained that the submission of the proposal was followed by a series of meetings by a joint committee of the NPA and APMC. Apapa Wharf road ready in September — NPA MD Yuletide: Port operators groan over gridlock in Lagos Tin Can Port’s traffic  of horror Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin