Arewa Development Support Initiative (ADSI), a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) that was created to combat the negative issues plaguing the North is clamouring for the revitalization and recovery of lost glories of the North. In a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja the founder, Hajiya Khuraira Musa said the initiative is targeted at making the North great again, through constructive co-operation, dialogue, trainings and empowerment. She further lamented about the economic, social and societal ills in which the North is engulfed in. Hajiya Khuraira advocated for every northerner to join hands in rebuilding Arewa and restoring its lost glories regardless of their ethnicity, religion or political affiliation. She encouraged people to stop participating in blame game or lamentations without proffering solutions. “We can’t leave everything in the hands of the government alone. As individuals we have look for ways to collaborate with the government in certain areas to make sure that lives are touched and made meaningful again in the North”.
In her address, she also emphasized the readiness of the NGO to actively contribute to the search for such ways through the launch of the Ngo’s Touching Lives project. “We’ve kicked off the touching lives program in Zamfara and Benue State. The initiative visited hospitals in both states and paid off medical bills of numerous patients. In Zamfara State alone, not less than 150 lives were impacted and over five local governments was visited.” She added that the Initiative will be moving on to Kaduna State where they will set up a skill acquisition program for the residents. When asked by Daily Trust how the NGO plans to fund its activities, a board of trustee member, Suleiman U. Abubakar said, “We have the program on ground and we’ve a system that every member pays 2000 naira every month, the target is we have over a 100 million people in the North and if we’re able to get at least two million northerners to key into this, we are talking about generating about four billion naira every month which is more than enough to carry out our plans.” “So I don’t think the issue of funding is going to be a problem for us. If we are able to generate this targeted amount every month then we can make a big difference in each of the nineteen northern states.’’ In her concluding remarks, Hajiya Khuraira Musa hinted on the upcoming skills acquisition project the association will be executing in Kaduna state in a few days’ time.  KCCI: KANO TOMORROW? 1966 coup threw North off balance -Justice Akanbi B-SWEEP was set up to uplift the status of women  - Hadiza Abubakar Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin