The Federal Capital Territory Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board has released this year’s hajj fare to Saudi Arabia. A statement from the Public Relations Officer of the Board, Muhammad Lawal Aliyu, said intending pilgrims from the FCT are to pay N1,548,651.10k only. He said all pilgrims from the territory would get a flat Basic Travel Allowance (BTA) of eight hundred US dollars ($800.00) across board as fixed by NAHCON. He said the release of the hajj fare was sequel to the release of its approved hajj fare for this year’s pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia by the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). He explained that the increase in the fare above that of last year was as a result of increase of cost of services in Saudi Arabia in addition to exchange rate of naira to a dollar. He  said the staff of the board underwent trainings to enhance their productivity in handling hajj affairs considering its importance to each and every Muslim. The spokesperson  urged intending pilgrims who have made deposits to immediately balance their payment before 31st of this month to enable the board meet up with the deadline for the balance of payment for this year’s hajj fare by the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). Similarly, the statement warned intending pilgrims who are yet to submit their completed application forms and e-passports to do so before the deadline or have themselves to blame. He also, advised residents who have the intention of performing the hajj through the board to get registered with the officials of the board across the six area council secretariats of the territory via a bank draft of the hajj fare package before the end of the month.  FCT Pilgrims Board releases hajj fares Understanding the numbers of Nigerian pilgrims in 2018 Hajj JUST IN: Kaduna pilgrims board announces 2019 Hajj fare Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin