The Ambassador of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to Nigeria, Mr. David Nieves Velásquez Caraballo, has described the coercive measures and systematic and conscious strategy of the United States against Venezuela as a massive violation of human rights of the Venezuelan people. He also said that the UN has recognised US actions as crimes against humanity. The envoy said this during a press briefing on the current situation in Venezuela at their embassy in Abuja on Thursday. Mr. Caraballo also noted that between 2015 and 2018, the blockage and confiscation of Venezuela’s financial assets by the US in efforts to cripple their economy, had caused a loss of an estimated $130 million. This blockage has also hindered the country’s capability to buy food and medicine for the people of Venezuela. “From 2017-2018, the banks of Europe and United States prevented financial operations of the government of Venezuela to the tune of $300 million, intended for the purchase of food. “The Swiss bank UBS also blocked the payment of resources intended for the purchase of vaccines. This caused a delay of 4 months in the vaccination programmes, severely affecting the Venezuelan population,” the ambassador explained. The ambassador also expressed Venezuela’s gratitude to the African Union (AU) on their stance on not getting involved in the internal affairs of their nation, and also upholding what’s expected of international law. “We express our gratitude on the position of the countries of the AU on their positions of respecting international law and not intervening in the internal affairs of Venezuela. We hope we can defeat these new actions,” the envoy added. Pic – Ambassador of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to Nigeria, Mr. David Nieves Velásquez Caraballo. Attacks on Venezuelan power act of desperation - Envoy Venezuela crisis: We’re ready for talks with opposition – Maduro VENEZUELA: President Maduro ready for talks with opposition Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin