The Anambra State Police Commissioner,CP Mustapha Dandaura and Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano on Thursday said there will not be sacred cows in fighting crimes and criminalities in the state. Governor Obiano and CP Dandura made the statement on Thursday while flagging off Puff -Adder in Okpoko Police Station, Onitsha Anambra state. Puff -Adder is a crime bursting out fit of the Nigerian Police Force to contend with the raising cases of criminalities in the country. The Governor Obiano, represented by the secretary to Anambra state government, Prof. Solo Chikwulobu,urged the men and officers of Anambra State command not be intimidated by any person, nomatter his position. The governor called on Police not to release any suspected person for a crime because one powerful individual indicated interest. “Any suspected criminal arrested in the state must go through the police investigation and nobody shall influence the release of any suspect when investigation is not completed. Police should not allow any person to intimidate them to releasing any suspect” he said. He commended the CP and his men for living up the expectations of goverment and people of the state in fighting crimes and criminalities. He said that government was determined to giving every support to security operatives in the state to fight criminal activities. He however said that with recent resurgence of crime in the state, police and government have demonstrated capacity to contend them. Dandaura in his welcome speech said police under his command would do everything legally possible to ensure the security of life and property. He said the police was poised to continue to make the State the safest State in Nigeria with innovative strategies and greater dedication to duty. According to him,there is no sacred cows and there would never be any in crime fighting in the state. He also advised the public to give useful information to Police as security is not just Police business but everyone responsibility. Herdsmen kill 6, injure 30 in Anambra community IPOB accuses Obiano, Ikpeazu of collaborating with security agencies to arrest members Condemnation trails Anambra church attack Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin