The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu has said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will win 2023 elections in the entire south-east zone considering the quantum and quality of support and commitment the party is currently receiving from its members. He also said that though the party did not get much support during the last election, it performed better than it did in the 2015 election “which shows that the people of the zone are ready to work with us” Onu made this known when the Conference of 2019 South East APC House of Assembly Candidates visited his country home in Ebonyi State to thank him for his support to them in the last general elections. He said: “With the level of support and vibrancy you all are showing to this great party, we believe that we shall be better by 2023. APC will win elections massively in the South East zone.” But he insisted that a lot more work needed to be done in terms of convincing the citizens of the principles upon which the party is built which includes making lives better and delivering to the people the true dividends of democracy. According to the minister, the party was happy that Nigerians had given President Muhammadu Buhari another chance to turn things around in the next four years. He stated: “It is obvious that the present government wants the best for the citizens of this country. But some people are yet to believe that. They are not even seeing the efforts he is making in terms of boosting our infrastructure.” He explained that the present administration came into office at a time when the country was completely dependent on crude oil and when the price slipped at the international market, it went into recession. He however said that the president was able to manage the economy efficiently, hence “there is an improvement in the infrastructural sector of the country, like construction of roads and maintenance of existing ones and even the waterways, all of which contribute to the growth of the economy.” Vote Buhari and get presidency in 2023, Minister tells Igbo Shehu Sani to South West & East:Demand a written agreement if your zone is promised power in 2023 Election: Buhari's minister blamed for APC’s failure in Ebonyi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin