The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to within 14 days, order an investigation into the alleged public treasury looting amounting to N14 trillion under his watch before May 29. The PDP in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said President Buhari must show his integrity by opening up his tenure for investigation, the same way his Presidency is demanding of other elected officials in the legislature and state governments across the country. The PDP also asked the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay, to help the nation by advising President Buhari to present his stewardship for investigation for alleged corruption, “instead of his (Sagay) unnecessary fixation on court rulings on Rivers State.” The party said the Buhari-led administration was “going down in history as the most corrupt administration ever; a stinking sanctuary of treasury thieves that thrives in manipulation, deception and official concealment.” The opposition party said it was totally unpardonable that President Buhari, “despite his claimed integrity and zero tolerance for corruption” not only superintended over an administration that “reeks and wallows in ocean of corruption but also refused to allow any investigation into earth shaking corruption under his watch.” The party said, ” The Buhari Presidency should order investigation into the whereabouts of N9 trillion ($25billion) allegedly stolen in his Ministry of Petroleum Resources, through under-hand oil contracts as detailed in the leaked NNPC memo. “The Buhari Presidency should also explain the circumstances surrounding the alleged corruption in the handling of the N2.6 trillion oil subsidy regime, particularly the alleged N58 hidden tax per litre which Nigerians have continued to bear since the fuel price increased from PDP subsidised cost of N87 to presumably unsubsidised cost of N145 as well as the reported stealing of N1.1 trillion worth of crude oil using 18 unregistered companies, allegedly linked to members of the cabal at the Presidency. “The PDP challenges President Buhari to allow an investigation into the alleged looting of over N40 billion Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) funds; the over N45 billion allegedly looted from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS); the alleged siphoning of $322m repatriated funds; the alleged extortion of N1.2 billion through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, as well as the billions stolen under the ‘TraderMoni’ project, among others. “Unless Mr. President has something to hide, he should within the next 14 days, allow for an independent inquest into these allegations of corruption.” Bury your 2023 presidential ambition, PDP tells Osinbajo APC, PDP in endless battle over corruption, economy PDP asks Buhari to ‎speak on $25bn oil contract scam Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin