BHM Group on Monday announced that two of its Lead Consultants, Oseremen Agenmonmen and Enitan Kehinde, will join hundreds of professionals from around the world at the 2019 edition of Digital Marketing World Forum (DMWF) holding at the Business Design Centre in London, United Kingdom. A statement from the marketing communication and public relations firm in Lagos said the duo will be at the renowned Global Expo to learn and network with colleagues in the digital marketing industry from across the world from May 23 to May 24. Oseremen Agenmonmen leads the Viacom and MultiChoice accounts for the BHM group while Enitan Kehinde, is in charge of the NB brands portfolio. A graduate of Brunel University, Oseremen is the lead consultant for BHM’s media and entertainment practice, covering MultiChoice and Viacom accounts amongst others. She has a vast experience in PR for media and entertainment-based portfolios, as referenced by her impressive work in some of Nigeria’s marketing/media outfits such as Insight Communications, ID Africa and NET Nigeria Limited. Similarly, Enitan, who is a bespoke media and marketing communications professional, is known for her work on industry-focused publications like the first-ever Nigeria PR Report, and the BHM Guide to Public Relations – a 138-page interactive digital book containing tips, tools and tricks for everyone interested in smart PR. Commenting on the upcoming event, the head of Talent Management at BHM, Chinenye Linda-Obi said, “BHM is absolutely committed to providing appropriate support for our staff particularly to enhance the work we do. “Conferences like this are rewarding experiences for marketing communications professionals because it opens our minds to how our counterparts across the world work, giving us insights on how to better our operations and even share on the Nigerian and African industry as a whole while also making projections and preparing for the future of the global industry.” With a team well versed in media and marketing Communications, BHM has pioneered several initiatives in the Nigerian public relations (PR) sector, such as the Nigerian PR Report, the BHM Guide to Public Relations and the BHM App, which serves as a pool of resources for the Nigerian public relations practitioners and credited as the “first PR mobile application”. Founded 11 years ago, the DMWF is a global forum that brings together the worldwide digital marketing community to tackle the challenges that the digital future presents. This year’s event will see over 1,200 global marketing communications professionals come together for two days of thought leadership, practical sessions and industry analysis on modern digital trends. Simon Miles, Coca-Cola’s Global Customer Director of Walmart International is slated to give a keynote speech on e-commerce, UX and CX disruptions and strategy. Other speakers and facilitators include Head of SAP Leonardo SAP UK & Ireland, Stephen Jamieson,  Ed Greig, Chief Distruptor at Deloitte Digital, Katy Clark, the Client Partner, Retail at Facebook and Anna Potanina Mobile UX & Design Specialist, Google, Soco Núñez de Cela, who is the Head of Brand & Marketing Communications – United Kingdom, Burger King. Joining him are Mitchell Feldman, who is the Chief Digital Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise Pointnext, as well as Anand Narayanan, the current Head of Digital Brand Marketing & Communications at Panasonic. With sessions on content, social media marketing, digital transformation, data, UX, AI, SEO, eCommerce, personalization and others, the event will showcase the latest in Digital Marketing Technologies and Strategy, Virtual Reality, Artificial Intelligence, eCommerce, Influencer Marketing, Content Marketing, Data, Analytics and Mobile Marketing across four conference tracks: Content, Influencer & Social Media Marketing, Digital Transformation & Strategy, eCommerce UX & CX and Data & Disruptive Tech. BHM CEO, Ayeni Adekunle, emerges panellist at Social Media Week Lagos BHM appoints new directors, business heads Femi Falodun becomes ID Africa’s CEO Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin