A yet to be identified commercial motorcycle rider was yesterday knock down by a hit and run driver along Ago Palace, Isolo, Lagos The rider, according to eye witness account, was riding on a top speed when he suddenly ran over one of the speed breakers which threw him off balance. A witness, one Tosin, alleged that the deceased was ran over by a Toyota Camry car which was behind the rider as at the time of the incident. The accident, which went viral on the social media, has continued to generate heated argument among some online medium. Lagos State Police Spokesman, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Bala Elkana, said that the allegation that the rider was killed by a policeman was totally false and targeted at the image of the force. Elkana, said effort was on going to arrest the driver who ran over the helpless rider after he fell off his motorcycle. He said: “The attention of Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video circulated on the social media in respect of an Okada Rider said to have been chased to his death by a Police Officer. The allegation is false and a complete misrepresentation of the facts. The fact is that on  May 8, 2019 at about 6.05 am, the Police at Ago Okota Police Station heard a loud sound few meters away from the station and rushed out to ascertain what was going on. “On gstting to the spot, they found a motorcyclist laying down in the pool of blood with his motorcycle on the ground. The victim was taken to the hospital but eventually died. On inquiries from eye witnesses around the scene, it was gathered that the motorcyclist was involved in a fatal accident with a vehicle along Ago Palace way. An eye witness known as  Mr Adedayo Benson stated that in the morning, he was standing in front of century hotel and saw the okada man, who was riding on a high speed, ran into a road bump/speed breaker and suddenly applied his break but was hit by a Camry car who was driving  behind. That the driver of the Camry ran before the arrival of the Police. Investigation into the accident is ongoing to track and apprehend the driver of the Camry vehicle with a view of bringing him to justice.”  Motorist escaping robbers crushes cyclist at Ukya village Bus driver crushes Okada rider to death in Lagos Bus driver crushes Okada rider to death in Lagos Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin