Governor Rochas Okorocha has disclosed that he has kept N42.5billion in Imo State bank accounts for his successor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha. Okorocha said  he kept  the money for the in-coming governor so that there won’t be excuses in carrying out activities of government. The outgoing governor, who spoke while swearing-in eleven Permanent Secretaries including the new Accountant-General, Deacon Donald Igbo, and the new Head of Service, Mrs. Ngozi Ama Eluma, said   N8.1billion of the money was meant for the payment of salaries and capital projects, while N5.2billion was for pension arrears. Okorocha said N7.6 billion was meant for the renovation of schools, while N21.6billion was earmarked for rural roads. He said following petitions by PDP chieftains in the state, the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) blocked the money for the payment of arrears of pension and others projects. According to Okorocha,  “Imo State Government has kept a total of N42.5b for the in-coming government, and for that reason, I will set up a sub-committee to make sure that the projects they are attached to come to fruition even when I am out of office or when I will not be available because government is a continuum. “N8.1b from FAAC is for the state and local government areas. That money has not been expended; the money is in Zenith Bank. “There is N5.2bn Paris Club fund in Access Bank, not one naira has been removed from it. The third fund is N7.6b that came from UBEC. Imo State has paid a total of N3.8b counterpart fund and UBEC has brought in their N3.8b. That gave us N7.6b. That money is intact. The fourth fund is the RAMP fund amounting to $60m, it is also in Imo State Government account with First Bank,” he said. Ihedioha will inherit N42bn in Imo – Okorocha Okorocha to pay N5bn out of  pension arrears Okorocha confirms receipt of N12.6bn Paris Club refund Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin