The PDP governorship candidate in the March 9, election in Ogun State, Prince Buruji Kashamu, yesterday, dismissed reports that he has joined the APC. Kashamu, who represents Ogun East Senatorial District, in a statement he personally signed, said the Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who was candidate of APC, had invited his team to join the transition committee and its sub groups. The call, which Kashamu said his team heeded “does not mean they have joined the APC.” According to him, as a stakeholder, his duty was to support Abiodun to succeed as any attempt to pull him down or distract him would not augur well for the state. “There have been insinuations in various quarters about my political stance and future. Let me state in unequivocal terms that when I joined active politics over a decade ago, it was on the platform of the PDP. I have remained in the PDP. I have not defected to the APC and I do not intend to do so. “However, the elections are over and winners have emerged. As a true Muslim, I believe the emergence of any leader is divinely ordained. “Therefore, my position has always been that whenever there is a contest and a winner emerges, we all owe it a duty to God and our people to support the leader to succeed, if our primary motive for seeking public office is to serve the people,” the senator said. Speaking on PDP’s intra-party crisis, Kashamu said, “I wish to categorically state that I am not in competition with anyone. It is clear that our people often exploit the air of internal rivalry and wrangling among us. I am a PDP leader and will remain so. Ogun Guber: PDP's Gbenga Daniel wins polling unit for APC Ogun 2019: Atiku’s DG, Gbenga Daniel backs APC’s Dapo Abiodun Kashamu didn't form alliance with Ogun Governor-elect, says PDP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin