The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on Thursday said it is targeting about 14bn litres of products supplies in a year from about 14 crude oil cargoes available from its 2019/20 Direct Sales Direct Purchase (DSDP) contracts.   Under the DSDP, the NNPC sells crude oil directly to offshore refiners and receive products from same in return.   Speaking while declaring bids open for the 2019-2020 rounds of the DSDP, Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru said the scheme was introduced in 2016 with efficient and cost-effective systems and processes to plug the loopholes of the January 2015 offshore processing agreements (OPA) contracts.   He said that about 39.6bn litres of petroleum products (representing over 90 per cent of national requirement) have been supplied since the DSDP inception from April 2016 to March 2019.  He added that the scheme has so far saved the country $2.2 billion the DSDP started in 2016.  The savings were achieved through major reductions in the amount paid for both demurrage and the petroleum products themselves.   “The Scheme prides itself with a competitive pricing framework (lower than the PPPRA benchmark) which over the years has ensure significant reduction in product demurrage of 84 per cent and cost savings of about $2.2billion,” the GMD said.  “The 2019-2020 DSDP tender objectives, according to the GMD, include “Engaging reputable qualified companies for the Direct Sales of Nigerian crude oil and Direct Purchase of Petroleum products; and Ensuring selection of off-takers is aligned with tested transparent and accountable procedures in compliance with the Public Procurement & Nigerian Content Acts,” he said.  Daily Trust reports that no fewer than 132 local and international oil and gas companies submitted bids to participate in the programme for 2019. Last year, about 128 companies submitted bids, the GMD said. Each contract, trading sources told Daily Trust, is going to be signed with a foreign company and a local partner.  Some of the companies who submitted bids were Vitol, Petrocam Trading, Rainoil Ltd., Trafigura, A.A. Ranoand Total Nigeria. others are Duke Oil, Rahamaniyya, OVH, 11plc, Matrix Energy, MRS Oil/Gas, Litasco, Sahara Energy Resource Ltd, among others. Crude oil swap, fuel scarcity and matters arising Patronize our shipping firm, Baru tells fuel supply partners Patronize our shipping firm, Baru tells partners