The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) and three Meter Asset Provider (MAP) vendors have launched the sale of 900,000 meters for electricity users in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Kogi, Nasarawa and Niger states within the next 36 months. The Managing Director of AEDC, Engr. Ernest Mupwaya, said at a ceremony in Abuja yesterday that the vendors include Mojec International, Turbo Energy and Meron. While Mojec will install and maintain meters for customers in the FCT and Kogi, Turbo Energy will do same for customers in Niger and Meron will handle customers in Nasarawa. Customers would pay about N37,000 for a single phase meter and N67,000 for a three phase meter. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) directed the 11 Distribution Companies (DisCos) to begin the sale of meters through the approved vendors since May 1, but AEDC is the first to start by May 10, launching it simultaneously in Lugbe (FCT), Keffi (Nasarawa State) and Minna (Niger state). The Chairman of NERC, Prof. James Momoh who was represented by the General Manager, Finance and Management Services, Abdulkadir Shettima, said the MAP programme is an intervention to eliminate estimated billing and guarantee more revenue for the power sector because survey showed Nigerians are willing to pay for what they consume. Momoh directed AEDC and the vendors to ensure that meters are installed within 10 days after payment, noting that sanctions apply by deducting money from the performance guarantee bond posted by the vendors. “If a meter is faulty, it must be replaced within two days or MAP will face the sanction,” he said, adding that if there is power outage for two weeks, metered customers on installment payment plan should not pay the Meter Service Charge (MSC). Managing Director of Mojec International, Ms Chantelle Abdul said the company has over 20,000 meters in stock to start sales for Kogi and the FCT. It also unveiled about six banks that customers could go to for meter financing so they can buy the meters on loans.  AEDC, 3 MAP vendors begin 900,000 meter sales in Abuja, others DisCos get FG’s final approval to sell meter at N37,000 AEDC begins installation of 222,728 meters tomorrow Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin