President Muhammad Buhari has approved the appointment of Mr Rabiu Yadudu as the new Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). This is contained in a statement by Mr James Odaudu, Deputy Director, Press and Public Affairs of the Ministry of Transportation in Abuja on Monday. According to Odaudu, the new MD, who is a Flight Captain, will take over from the erstwhile Managing Director, Mr Saleh Dunoma, a certified engineer. The appointment takes immediate effect. The new MD is an International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and Airport Council International (ACI) accredited International Airport Professional. Until his new appointment, Yadudu was the Director of Airport Operations of FAAN. The new helmsman holds professional certifications in Avionics, Airport Safety Management Systems, Airport Security Management, Air Transport Systems Management, amongst others. Many aviation stakeholders yesterday expressed mixed feelings over the replacement of Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Engr. Saleh Dunoma and appointment of a replacement. In a move which shocked the industry stakeholders, the Federal Government through the Ministry of Transportation (Aviation) announced the appointment of Capt. Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu as the MD of the authority. The appointment came 48 hours after the commissioning of some airport projects by the Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika in Lagos, Ibadan and Benin with the erstwhile MD. It was however learnt that the erstwhile MD saw his exit coming. Sources said the Federal Government felt the former MD, having spent over three decades in the authority, deserved to take a bow and allow another person take over the mantle in the authority. “Though his appointment is for five years he is having some personal challenges which he needed to attend to. He maintains a cordial relationship with the Minister up till his last days”, said a source who spoke with our correspondent in confidence yesterday.  Breaking: FG removes FAAN MD, appoints Captain Yadudu as replacement SAHCOL gets new MD AMCON appoints new MD for Aero Contractors Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin