A German- based NGO Bruderhilfe Social Development Initiative (BSDI) has donated 100 of modernized mobility to ease sufferings of physically challenged people affected by Boko Haram insurgency. While flagging off the distribution at the weekend in Maiduguri, The Executive Director of BSDI, Mrs. Mary Bruder  said the an electric mobility will bring succor to people living with disabilities in Borno. She noted that carts which are modernized wheel chairs were presented by a German-based Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) to be distributed to disables living in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps and host communities. She said, “Bruderilfe is highly indebted to His Excellency, Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the Federal Republic of Germany for his enviable role in ensuring that the project becomes a resounding success.” “We at Bruderlife will continue to count on his leadership and exemplary role in supporting Nigerians in the Diaspora to succeed in their endeavours and in promoting cooperation among the private sector players of both Nigeria and Germany.” “Our first phase of intervention is what you are witness today, a total of 100 physical challenged persons affected by insurgency will get an electric mobility each but our subsequent interventions will focus on health and educations.” “Catering for the needs and welfare of the vulnerable is a collective responsibility, as enjoined by both religions that everyone is expected to support and take care of the needy in the society. It’s a continuous process of interventions, with the empowerment of people living with disabilities in the Northeast.” She charged the IDPs to be determined, before they could succeed in life. Bruder further disclosed that a disability empowerment Scheme will also be flagged off for registered people living with disabilities in northeast. “When you plan, you’ll succeed. I don’t believe in begging. The mobility carts will ease your movements within and outside camps and host communities.” Mrs. Mary urged.   How 126 NGOs make life easy, difficult in Maiduguri Governor’s wife NGO trains 300 women on different skills EU, Group target 25,000 mobility challenged children in W/Africa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin