The police have arrested four suspected armed robbers over an attempt to snatch N3 million from the manager of a filling station in Abuja. The FCT Police Commissioner, Bala Ciroma, who disclosed this at a press briefing in Abuja yesterday, said the four suspects trailed the filling station’s manager who was on a motorcycle conveying the money to a bank. CP Ciroma said the armed men pushed the motorcycle off the road when they caught up with him and dispossessed him of the money. He said other cyclists in the area who thought it was an accident chased the vehicle carrying the suspects, adding that one of the vehicle’s tyres pulled off and the car was stopped, forcing the suspects to run into the bush around Pyakasa, along Airport Road. According to him, the police were immediately informed while the vehicle was towed to the police station and that the police operatives used the number plate to track the owner of the car who was also a member of the gang. The police commissioner gave the names of the suspects as Samuel Monday (23) from Kogi State, Isaac Kiri (37) Rivers State, Alex Enyeama (37), Imo State and Abdul Musa (40) Kogi State. “Upon interrogation, the gang members said they all came to Abuja at the instance of Friday, the gang leader, who is at large. They said planning an operation was always with an insider, especially security guards,” he said. He said one of the gang’s members, Abdul, confessed to be using charms and incantations to cause rain any time they were going for operations, and added that exhibits recovered from them included charms, cutlasses, a giant cutter, crow bar, a sharp iron, hacksaw and two number plates. Ciroma said effort was ongoing to arrest two other gang members who he gave their names as Friday and Daddy. He added that two armed robbery suspects were also arrested by the police during a stop-and-search operation aroud Mabushi Roundabout. He said the suspects were accosted after the police noticed their suspicious moves, saying one of the suspects, Friday Udoka, escaped but his gang member, John Ayiten, was caught with a locally made pistol. The commissioner said during interrogation, he confessed that they were on their way to Jabi for a robbery, saying investigation was ongoing while effort was on to arrest Friday Udoka.  Why we killed ex-defence chief, Alex Badeh – Suspect Police arrest man, 42, with human skull in Abuja 2018: Year during which 2 retired generals were killed Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin