The Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly has 26 members representing different constituencies and all of them were members of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state until the wake of electioneering campaigns.  Ahead of this year’s elections, five members of the assembly defected to the opposition  All Progressives Congress Party (APC). However, the APC members were ‘sacked’ by their PDP colleagues for allegedly leaving the party without cogent reasons. Not minding the decision of their colleagues, the defecting lawmakers continued with their politicking and three of them were given tickets by their new party – APC – to participate in the March 9 elections. In retrospect, the five legislators that dumped the PDP took the decision in solidarity with the former Minority Leader of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, who earlier defected to APC and became its leader in Akwa Ibom State. Sadly, the trio that got ticket of the APC lost their bid to PDP candidates during the parliamentary elections, the same way Akpabio lost his bid to return to the Senate. As it stands, all the five opposition members will not be returning to the assembly, making the legislature a house of all PDP members. A total of 14 members who retained their seats include David Lawrence Udofa representing Eket constituency; Usoro Samuel Akpanusoh representing Esit Eket/Ibeno; Aniefiok Dennis – Etinan; Aniekan  Uko – Ibesikpo Asutan; Uduak A. Odudoh – Ikot Abasi/Eastern Obolo; Idongesit E. Ntekpere – Ikot Ekpene/Obot Akara; Emmanuel Ekpenyong Bassey – Ini; Mark Udo Esset – Nsit Atai; Princess Felicia Bassey – Okobo; Nse Essien – Onna; Effiong Okon Bassey – Oron/Udung Uko; Udo Kerian Akpan – Oruk Anam; Aniekan Etim Bassey – Uruan; and  Asuquo E. Archibong – Urue Offong Oruko. The 11 new elected members are, Udeme J. Otong representing Abak constituency; Mfon Frank Idung – Etim Ekpo/Ika; Godwin James Ekpo – Ibiono Ibom; Asuquo Nana Udo – Ikono; Kufre-Abasi Edidem -Itu; Okon Asuquo Frank – Mbo; Victor Patrick Ekwere – Mkpat Enin; Ifiok Okon Udoh – Nsit Ibom; Otobong Effiong Bob – Nsit Ubium; Charity Friday Ido – Ukanafun and Anietie B. Eka representing Uyo constituency. The result for Essien Udim Local Government Area is still pending as the gubernatorial and state House of Assembly polls were said to be riddled with irregularities. As such, elections in nine out of the 11 wards of the council area were cancelled. The 7th Assembly may not really defer from the 6th as all members are of the PDP and would be loyal to the governor of the state, Udom Emmanuel, who has secured a second term. But the issue of who becomes the speaker could be a challenge as the current speaker, Mr Onofiok Luke, will be proceeding to the House of Representatives. Insiders believe that Governor Emmanuel would want a speaker that would be completely loyal and supportive of his administration as the outgoing speaker. In fact, the selection process that determined who emerged as candidates for the different state constituencies was not only based on zoning but also influenced by political godfathers. For instance, the new member for Nsit Ubium Constituency, Otobong Effiong Bob, is the son of a two-term senator, Senator Effiong Bob. It was gathered that he influenced the emergence of his son is said to be neophyte in politics. But for the fact that Gov. Emmanuel had control over the state assembly, he would have been impeached at the height of his misunderstanding with Sen. Akpabio. 2019: How A/Ibom Assembly became a battlefield 2019: Challenges before senators, reps in new political parties Defeated APC House of Reps candidate in Akwa Ibom defects to PDP