Discussions on fiscal policy, at the recent IMF/ World Bank Spring Meetings 2019, observed that government debt – to – GDP ratios have reached unprecedented level, which has limited the capacity of some of these countries to provide countercyclical policies. As a result, potential growth remains subdued in most of the affected countries, partly as other factors like aging populations, declining birth rates and raising barriers to immigration, weigh in. During the economic interface at the meeting, which structurally provided an opportunity to review developments in the global economy, examine emergent and associated risks and offer potential policy menu to ameliorate the economic situations, going forward, Taking the plunge into the global economy, the meeting noted the slowing down of the global economy with a revised global growth from 3.3% in 2019 to a projected 3.6% in 2020 mainly due to the following reasons:  heightened trade tensions, tightening financial market conditions, softening industrial activity, dampening global investment, monetary policy normalization and geopolitical tensions like uncertainties over Brexit – all resulting in policy uncertainty. Looking at ways out of the noted challenges, it was suggested that policymakers in emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) should prioritize cost-effective policies that increase resilience to shocks, boost overall productivity, raise incomes of the bottom 40 percent of the income distribution, and involve private sector solutions. It was reasoned that prioritization of structural reforms to reflect country-specific constraints would be critical as identified in systematic country diagnostics and country partnership frameworks. For instance, where fiscal positions are weak, priorities may include shifting public spending toward more productive and poverty-reducing expenditures and improving revenue frameworks; where regulatory or tax burdens constrain growth, priorities may include better public sector effectiveness and governance, etc. Part of the understanding was that the reforms should be supplemented by steps to strengthen social safety nets, to mitigate climate change risks and to maximize the benefits of new technologies. The key take away at the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC) meetings was that the Managing Director requested for a mandate to pursue some negotiations with Governors for temporary financing options for ensuring that the Fund remains adequately resourced by maintaining the current resource envelope of the Fund through borrowed resources. This had arisen partly due to the delay in completing the 15th general review of Quotas. While Governors endorsed this position, Zainab Ahmed, the Nigerian Honourable Minister of Finance, among others, “called for an ambitious timetable for the 16th General Review of Quota which should result in increased Quota shares for dynamic economies in line with their relative positions in the world economy, while protecting the voice and representation of the poorest members.” In her capacity as representative of 23 African countries, she addressed the IMFC and issued a statement calling for normalization of trade relations among the contending parties and called for concerted efforts to support multilateralism and avoid protectionist sentiments. “At the G24, I drew the attention of the World Bank Group (WBG) to some of the challenges we face in implementing our portfolio like the implementation of the new environmental and social safeguards framework which tends to slow down implementation of infrastructure projects. I called on the WBG to reflect on this and do something about this,” she states. The engagement at the IMFC also focused on the global policy agenda on which Governors took note of the key policies to anchor the new multilateralism focusing on domestic policies. Governors underscored the importance of strengthening market competition, encouraging innovation tackling weak governance and corruption and meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Governors underlined the importance of strengthening international coordination and cooperation to tackle shared challenges, given the potentially damaging effects of trade tensions on global economic developments, and impact of natural disasters on developing countries. IMF puts global debt at $180trillion CBN cuts lending rate from 14% to 13.5% to fast track growth As MPC meets, 2019 elections, US rate hike may shape outcome – Experts Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin