The Ebonyi State Police Command on Tuesday confirmed the mysterious death of four members of a particular family who allegedly died after taken their dinner in Amaechara village in Afikpo North Local Government Area of state. The incident took place on Sunday night after the four victims took their dinner which was suspected to have been poisoned. Daily Trust gathered that among the deceased was an aged woman alleged to be 100 years old, and who was found lifeless in the toilet. Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Loveth Odah, said the corpses of the victims have been deposited in the mortuary at Matter Hospital in Afikpo North Local Government Area of the state. Odah said, “The death of the said persons was as a result of food poisoning. A family of four at Amaechara village at Afikpo North LGA was discovered dead on their bed inside their room. “We sent a team of police officers to the area and discovered that the said family of four ate their last meal and gave up; this include an aged woman of about 100 years. “Another was the first daughter of the 100 years old mother, a retired teacher who was found dead in the living room. “Also, was the second daughter who recently lost her husband and the maid whose body was found in the kitchen. DSP Odah explained that the command has begun investigation to ascertain how it happened. “This is a very sad incident and the command would conduct autopsy on the corpses in a bid to ascertain the cause of their death. “We urge people to always check the type of food they want to eat to avoid this kind of mysterious death,” she said. Police parade suspected murderers of 104-yr old man in Ebonyi JUST IN: Popular prophetess found dead in Abakaliki Man kills 8 in Ebonyi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin