The Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has described Professor Yemi Osinbajo as the best vice president ever in Nigeria. Speaking on Friday at the daily Ramadan tafsir at his palace square, the first-class traditional ruler charged clerics in Nigeria to pray for the nation’s leaders. He said the overwhelming support Nigerians gave to President Muhammadu Buhari during the last general elections was a “definition of virile governance and testimony of the trust” Nigerians had in Buhari and his deputy. The royal father lauded the vice president for extending tradermoni programme of Buhari’s administration to Iwo, testifying that the scheme had positively impacted on many lives He stated: “As a respected entity, our voices should be made to count in promoting our sons vying for leadership positions. Yoruba gave Osinbajo less than expected support during the last general elections. Yoruba nation should compensate him with prayers for victory at the tribunal. He is a priceless pride, being the best vice president ever in Nigeria. He deserves maximum support now and beyond. “The last general election was won by the masses-based programmes, integrity, uprightness, transparency, diligence and transparency of President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The election came at a fragile time the unity of the nation was questionable, but the masses-based programmes of the government and the personality of our top son (Osinbajo) in the administration earned the ruling party the victory. Though democracy allows litigation, but going to court to challenge such open victory is a direct confrontation on the masses who voted massively. “My city, Iwo massively supported Osinbajo because they felt his leadership directly through tradermoni and other imparting schemes launched by the federal government. Some aged women in Iwo are collecting salary every month. The V.P, in collaboration with the Osun state government, is currently promoting the reconstruction of the Iwo-Osogbo Road. “I want to appeal to politicians, irrespective of their parties, to manifest maturity in their political conducts, to define democracy with their actions and stop abusing democracy. Support for the leaders is one of the hallmarks of patriotism. Nigerian politicians should desist from destructive criticism, violence inducing languages and defamation. We should rather embrace political collectivism, togetherness and inclusive governance to shape better political direction to the country’s image”. Osinbajo’s pleas for Yoruba a clarion call for Ndigbo – VON DG How Osinbajo, Obi will affect 2019 calculations Buhari, Osinbajo group plans door-to-door campaign Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin