The Senate yesterday mandated one of its committees to probe the poor state of the Nigerian teaching hospitals following an investigative story published by the Daily Trust on Monday. Daily Trust lead story revealed the poor quality and high cost of services in Nigerian teaching hospitals where there is widespread of poor electricity supply, obsolete medical equipment and decayed infrastructure. The Senate, adopting a motion by Sen David Umaru (APC, Niger), mandated its committee on health to conduct an emergency investigative hearing on the state of healthcare services in Nigerian teaching hospitals and report back within one week. The Senate also resolved to summon the Minister of Health Prof Isaac Adewole to brief it on the current state of facilities and healthcare services in the teaching hospitals. Senators equally urged the Federal Government to adopt a policy on subsidising the medical expenses of patients with terminal ailments such as cancer and kidney failure. They further urged the Federal Government o immediately adopt short and long term measures that will holistically address the challenges confronting the teaching hospitals and retool them for excellent tertiary healthcare services in the country. Umaru, who copiously cited the Daily Trust investigation, expressed concerns about the state of the teaching hospitals. The report revealed obsolete facilities, broken infrastructure, poor electricity supply, and inadequate funding are some of the major challenges making it difficult for Nigerian teaching hospitals to provide treatment to patients with complex ailments. After Daily Trust investigation, Senate probes state of teaching hospitals FG, Sokoto govt’s collaboration as model in healthcare financing Nizamiye Hospital aims to discourage medical tourism Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin