The displaced indigenes of Urugbam community in Biase Local Government Area of Cross River State have urged the government of Cross River to urgently implement the resolutions reached at the Joint Consultative meeting held. The Joint Consultative meeting was held at the Nigerian Air Force Conference Centre, Abuja in 31 October, 2018 and had deputy governors of both states; Prof Ivara Esu (Cross River) and Dr Kelechi Igwe (Ebonyi state) and the Director-General of National Boundary Commission (NBC), Dr M.B. Ahmed present, Daily Trust gathered. Daily Trust further gathered that the displaced indigenes of Urugbam, since last year, had been taking refuge in Ekoli Edda community, in Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State and some in Okun-Ohafia community in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State. The spokesperson of Urugbam, Bishop Frank Owali stated this when a 10-man delegation sent by the Cross River government met with them in Nguzu Edda community of Afikpo South LGA of Ebonyi State. Bishop Owali pointed out that the resolutions were signed and sealed in the presence of Deputy Governors of Cross River and his counterpart from Ebonyi State and also in the present of the Director General of National Boundary Commission and others. He urged the NBC to urgently step-up moves geared towards tracing and demarcating the disputed land to put an end to the lingered violence in the area. “What we are asking is for the government of Cross River state to urgently implement the resolutions reached at the end of our Joint Consultative meeting held in Abuja. “Urugbam people are under an Ancestral oath not to encroach into any parcel of land that does not belong to us, just as we are not in a hurry to cede any part of our lands to anybody,” he said. Meanwhile, the Governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade, assured that he had made all the necessary arrangements for their safe return to their home land. “We have come to see you, our people, who have been here in Afikpo South LGA-Ebonyi State, for over five months now; who have left their ancestral home, not willingly. We have been sent by the Cross River State Governor. “We want to assure you that peace will return to your home and that our efforts to make you return to your home and live in peace will not be in vain,” he said. Displaced Urugban community allege fake security, accuses govt of massacre plot Communal crises: Ebonyi calls for FG intervention Army brokers peace between warring Ebonyi, Cross River communities Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin