The acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu has confirmed that the agency is investigating the outgoing Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha, along with some other Nigerians. Magu made this known in an interview with the Channels Television in London, which aired yesterday. He is in the United Kingdom to meet with investigators assisting the Nigerian government in solving cases of money laundering and financial crimes. The EFCC boss said Governor Okorocha is one of the many people being investigated by the commission. The EFCC boss said although he was aware of reports of the investigation on the social media, the details the anti-graft agency has was different from what was in the public space. When asked for details, Magu declined, saying the commission has to get to a certain level before it can disclose any information about an ongoing investigation. He said it was necessary to prevent any action that can jeopardise or interfere with the process of the inquiry. When contacted, the Imo State governor also confirmed the development to Daily Trust yesterday but also refused to give details. Okorocha said he is under investigation by the anti-graft agency, adding that all the state funds have been blocked The governor spoke to Daily Trust after handing over some hospitals to some agencies, non-governmental organisations at the Government House. “You know that I have been under investigation by EFCC and I have been running the government with my own money. All the state funds have been blocked by EFCC,” he said. Okorocha will be finishing his second term as governor of Imo State on May 29, 2019. He contested in the National Assembly election as senator and emerged as winner. The independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has however refused to issue him with a certificate of return, arguing that the electoral official said he declared Okorocha as the winner under duress. Meanwhile, the Imo Charter Forum (ICF) has urged the state governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, to stop the balance of Paris Club refund from being released to Okorocha. The ICF in a statement signed by its National Secretary, Hon. Zebulon Nwariri, said while it welcomed the “announcement of the refunds with open arms, if the fund is released to the outgoing governors, they would find excuses to spend it on frivolities or even divert it to private coffers.” The EFCC also accused Okorocha of mismanaging the N8bn Paris Club loan refunded to the state for the payment of salaries.  EFCC investigates abandon projects in Nigeria Magu:  The Trial of EFCC Boss Fayose: EFCC raises alarm over fake ‘Magu Tape’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin