Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state yesterday said Terwase Akwaza, popularly known as Gana has made three local government areas in his state unsafe. Ortom stated this after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. He said Gana who he said was trained by Boko Haram has continued to terrorize the people of the state and Taraba state. “He is the one instrumental to the Kidnappings happening between Benue and Taraba State. All forms of criminality – armed robbery, assassinations and so on. The community too have given up because as at today, the three local governments of Katsina-Ala, Logo and Ukum are not safe. “No educational, farming, commercial activities are going on, the Igbos that are major traders have vacated. With operation Y Stroke we are going to move against them and we believe we will be able to surmount them,” he said. The governor said the anti-open grazing law was being implemented and that 50 persons have been convicted in the state. “On herdsmen and farmers, the place is relatively peaceful. The law is being implemented and we have arrested 400 people irrespective of their ethnic background, whether Fulani, Igbos, Yoruba, Tiv, Idoma and we have convicted 50 people for contravening various offenses and we have seized more than 2,000 cattle. “The law is still in force in Benue State and we are implementing it. Everyone is free to establish a ranch; we are not targeting any individual or group. Anyone who wants to do cattle business should come to Benue and ranch, that we have land for it but for open grazing we have no land,” he said. Will Gana’s surrender end killings in Benue communities? Can Oshiomhole’s overtures keep Ortom in APC? That mayhem in Zaki Biam Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin