For the Igbo of the South East to make any useful impact in 2023 they must wake-up now from their long political slumber and face reality of the time. Founder and National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP), Chief Chekwas Okorie, who said this in an exclusive interview with Daily Trust in Enugu, also stated that Ndigbo must begin to make good use of their wide range of network and contacts all over the nation before 2023, adding that “the early to bed is early to rise.” Chief Okorie said if only Ndigbo could maximise their numerical strength in every part of Nigeria and evolve the necessary political consciousness before 2023, they would definitely change the nation’s political power equation in a more positive manner. He said, “So if Ndigbo have that political consciousness, you will have a National Assembly that has more Igbo representatives than what you have now. “And then if you build the necessary bridges, which God has already given us the opportunity, because for centuries, the past four, five centuries, Igbo people had lived across the country. “In 2000, I was in a place in northern Gusau in Zamfara State where there is an Igbo settlement that has been there for the past 400 years. In the year 2000 – that was the year the caliphate celebrated its bi-centenary – 200 years of being in Nigeria, but Igbo people were already there 200 years before Uthman Dan-Fodio arrived Sokoto in 1804. “Yes; don’t forget that Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe was born in Zungeru, the present Niger State. His father was a secretary to Lord Lugard; it’s on record. Emeka Ojukwu was also born in Zungeru – so many of such people. That means we have in-laws and relations who are not Igbo but related well with the Igbo at that time. “So, these are already bridges that are there naturally which all we need to do is harness, and we will be able to produce the president. But then, even if we don’t produce the president, we become a critical factor in Nigeria’s power equation.” Igboezue endorses Buhari for 2019 2019: Igbo should accept Buhari''s Olive branch - Okechukwu Ohanaeze crisis worsens as Elders’ Council sets up Caretaker Committee Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin