Two persons,  Samson Shittu, 25, and Ramoni Animashaun, has been remanded in prison custody on the order of Ogba Chief Magistrates’ Court, for allegedly raping a 21-year-old girl. The accused persons, according to the police, are members of an armed robbery gang who were arrested for allegedly raping a lady after robbing her of her belongings. The duo are being tried on a two count-charge of robbery and rape and if found guilty, might spend a minimum of 12 years in prison. The Prosecutor, Inspector Christopher John, said that the unfortunate incident happened at Oshodi area where the victim and the suspects reside. He said that the dastardly act was reported to the police in the area who promptly moved in and arrested the two accused persons while the other five members of the gang escaped and that they are still on the run. It was gathered that the men reportedly ambushed the lady, pushed her to a corner, pulled her pant and took turns to rape her. Two of the suspects, Samson Shittu, 25, and Ramoni Animashaun were arrested. They were later transferred to the Gender Section of Police Command for further investigation. The police said that the accused persons did admitted committing the offence during interrogation and had mentioned others who participated in the act. The prosecutor, Inspector John, asked the Court to refer the matter to the Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice because of the seriousness of the offence in order to determine whether the case will be transferred to the High Court. Thus, the Presiding Magistrate, Mr. Peter Nwaka, ordered the defendants to be remanded in prison custody without an option of bail. The Court also directed the prosecutor to duplicate the file and send a copy to DPP for advice while the accused would be remanded in prison custody pending the outcome of the DPP’s report. The matter was adjourned till June 3, 2019.  Cult leader jailed 21 years for rape Man who raped own mum, mother in-law lands in IGP’s net When teachers prey on their students Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin