The story of a Chief Magistrate court order directing Kano State commissioner of police, Mohammed Wakili, a Chief Magistrate Court sitting in Kano, to effect immediate arrest of popular Hausa movie actress, Hadiza Aliyu Gabon has shocked the Hausa movie making industry. It was gathered that, the court order was a response to the actress’s inability to honour the court’s invitation following a suite filed at court 15 sitting at Normans land Kano. It was reported that Chief Magistrate Muntari Dandago who gave the order on Thursday had also charged the police commissioner to investigate and determine whether the allegation of assault levelled against the film star by Mustapha Badamasi Naburaska is worthy of presentation in court. “Since the invitee is not willing to respect the order of this court, I hereby order the commissioner of police to arrest the invitee and I further order the commissioner of police to investigate the allegation of the complainant, and if there is an iota of truth, to charge the suspect before any court of law for prosecution,” the order reads. It could be recalled that following the alleged assault video of actress Amina Amal by Gabon, a misunderstanding between the comedian Naburiska and Gabon ensued and Naburiska claimed that actress Gabon had made degrading comments on his personality and therefore went to court in a bid to seek redress. It was reported that the comedian secured a court summon inviting Hadiza Gabon, a summon the actress was said not to have honoured. However, the secretary, Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MOPPAN) Salisu Muhammed, has revealed that the association has been doing all it could to see that peace returned to the industry, adding that just of recent the association succeeded in making peace between Adam A Zango and Ali Nuhu. According to him, the association is also at the top of reconciling Hadiza Gabon and Amina Amal, saying even though the case has been taken to court the association will do all that it takes to see that a peace accord is reached. Kannywood: Court orders immediate arrest of Hadiza Gabon Court orders arrest of Hajj fare collector for diverting pilgrims'' N50million How fake lawyer  was exposed in Kano Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin