House Majority Leader and front line contender for Speaker of the 9th ‎House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos), has begun a campaign tour of the eleven states in the South East and South South region of the country. Accompanying him in the tour, which began yesterday (May 20), is the Deputy Speakership candidate, Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), and about 103 other lawmakers. The Lagos lawmaker who arrived Akanu‎ Ibiam International Airport by 10:00am on Tuesday was received by other colleagues, as well as chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South East. He thereafter headed for the Abakaliki Government House where he met with the Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, and the Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe. Speaking on why he should be elected Speaker of the House in the incoming 9th Assembly, Gbajabiamila enumerated his achievements as a ranking lawmaker with many years of legislative experience. “I have the legislative and leadership experience required to take the House of Representatives and Nigeria to the next level, in line with our campaign slogan,‎ “Nation Building: A Joint Task‎,” he said. In his remark, Governor Umahi, who described Gbajabiamila as the “incoming speaker‎” of the House, also lauded his intelligence and charisma in the leadership of 8th Assembly. “I believe strongly that your consultation shows that no section of the country can do it alone. We need one another to succeed. “I, Dave Umahi, is with you. I support you,” the governor said. He, however, took exception to the recent moves by the lawmakers to grant autonomy to the LGAs, saying over 40 percent of such local‎ councils in Ebonyi cannot pay salaries. He reminded the speakership candidate that the South East zone remains an integral part of the federation, and thus should be carried along in the distribution of key political positions in line with the principle of federal character. Speakership: Gbajabiamila lobbies Dogara, others Speaker: Gbajabiamila faces 8 contenders despite APC’s position Speakership: North Central elders seek Buhari, APC intervention Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin