As the race for the speakership of the House of Representatives peaks ahead of the June 10, inauguration of the 9th Assembly, Daily Trust examines the chances, strengths and weaknesses of Umar Bago (APC, Niger), a contender who said he cannot drop his ambition because of the endorsement of a certain candidate among equals as “it is alien to democratic tenets.”  Barring last-minute intrigues and change of plans, the race for the speakership of the 9th House of Representatives appears to be narrowing to a two-horse race between the incumbent House Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos), and Umaru Bago (APC, Niger), Daily Trust reports. Clearly, events of the last few months have seen drastic reduction in the number of contestants for the Number Four Citizen, from over 12 candidates who initially indicated interest to clinch Yakubu Dogara’s job. While some contenders voluntarily withdrew from the race, ostensibly for Gbajabiamila, the favoured candidate of the ruling APC, others were won over through political lobbying; yet, few were dismissed as rather “unserious candidates seeking for attention and bargaining power.” In the mid of all, however, Umaru Mohammed Bago has refused to budge. The question remains: Why has Bago decided to literally “swim against the APC tide” and what are his chances in the race? Although there are reports of covert moves by the Gbajabiamila camp to win over the 45-year-old lawmaker representing Chanchaga Federal Constituency of Niger State, events from his campaign council point to the contrary. Responding to Daily Trust’s inquiry to that effect, Chairman of the Umaru Bago Campaign Council and a former lawmaker from Anambra State, Victor Ogene, dismissed any purported ongoing consultation with the Gbajabiamila camp as “fake news, lacking no substance in its entirety.” “I can tell you authoritatively that there is nothing like that. You see, that’s fake news as far as I am concerned. What I know is that Bago is the candidate to beat in the coming election for Speaker of the House of Representatives. “I am saying that with all sense of responsibility and I can confirm to you that the outcome of the June 10, inauguration will surprise many bookmakers. So, I want to rest the case here until June 10, when the election will be won and lost.” Aside that, there have been many theories about Bago’s chances and weaknesses in the forthcoming speakership election and why he decided to remain in the race even against the party’s preferred choice, rebuffing in the process, all entreaties and lobby by the Gbajabiamila camp. Bago has dared his party’s zoning arrangement, and thus far, appears to have got away with it considering the direction of his campaign which appears to be garnering refreshed boost on daily basis. Some analysts have often pointed to a repeat of the 2015 scenario, where two contenders that dared the APC’s zoning arrangement, Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara, eventually emerged the senate president and speaker respectively. But a counter argument has it that a lot of things have changed, both in the country and in the APC since then, hence “a repeat of 2015 is highly unlikely in the current circumstance.” The proponents of this school of thought are also quick to point to the recent non-partisan endorsement of Gbajabiamila by some 178 lawmakers in Abuja. These lawmakers were reportedly meant to submit signed letters of intent to vote Gbajabiamila on June 10, although that remains to be seen. Added to that, they contend that the choice of Idris Wase as Gbajabiamila’s deputy is a tactical move that appears to end Bago’s ambition permanently. This, according to them, is especially so as both Wase and Bago come from the North Central which has been agitating for the speakership. However, the Umaru Bago camp is not taking the calculation lightly as it continues to marshal out the bright chances of the two-term lawmaker. Some analysts also believe that there is currently a noticeable crack in the APC house as shown by the recent hot exchanges between the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, and the APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu. Some of these lawmakers, mostly from the North West, are said not to be enchanted with Tinubu’s seemingly growing influence ahead of the 2023 political permutation and are thus frantically rooting for Bago as the best choice. In fact, Speaker Yakubu Dogara has been rousing his colleagues not to allow Tinubu have his way in installing a presiding officer in the 9th House. The National Assembly is legendary for not playing to the rules of external meddling as shown by the events of the 7th and 8th assemblies. Besides, APC’s endorsement of Gbajabiamila, who also comes from the same South West as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo might not have gone down well with all the lawmakers who may be secretly working against it. Even Bago himself has stated on several occasions that he would have stepped down if the party had zoned the speakership to another zone in the South. “My position is still the same; and let me reiterate that in the spirit of unity, we introduced the federal character into our constitution, which states that all the key offices in the country will be shared across the six geopolitical zones so that each would have a sense of belonging. “Under this arrangement, both the North West and the South West have been settled already. If the party has come out to say we are zoning the speakership to the South East, honestly I would have just gone to contest for deputy speakership, if I want. “But as a zone, the North Central is saying, in whatever ramification, that we deserve to be considered in the zoning arrangement because we brought the third highest votes to make APC a government at the centre,” he stated in an interview recently. Observers are of the opinion that Bago is likely to reap from these noticeable loopholes if the ruling party fails to put its house in good order before June 10. Speakership: Dogara, loyalists in fix over Gbajabiamila Ninth House: Meet Reps who want Dogara’s job Speaker: Gbajabiamila faces 8 contenders despite APC’s position Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin