The National Chairman of the Action Peoples Party (APP), Chief Ikenga Ugochinyere has resigned his position as President of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). Reading his resignation letter, addressed to the Secretary General of the Council, dated May 15, 2019, at a press conference yesterday in Abuja, Ugochinyere said the Vice President of the Council has also decided to resign and ratify the Life National Patron of the Council. He explained that his decision to quit the NYCN office was to enable him focus on his political roles as APP National Chairman and Spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). He said his long absence from the Council and foray into opposition politics had created a huge vacuum that led to the emergence of factional leaders and splinter groups which he said were destroying the unity of the Council. Chief Ugochinyere added that following his deep involvement in opposition politics, he may not be totally neutral to lead the Council, hence his resignation. He called on the leadership of the Council to conduct a unity election without delay in order to elect a new president that would fill the vacancy. “I believe it is going to be a disservice to NYCN to be in a position where my personal political interest and affiliations will conflict with the common interest of the generality of Nigerian youths. “I call on my fellow comrades, brothers and sisters in the struggle who have fueled and benefitted from the divisions in the Council to look at the greater good of the Council and take the honourable path of making personal sacrifce of stepping aside to allow the emergence of younger, neutral and more vibrant leadership,” he said. Why Youth Council is ineffective – President ‘We want young person as youth minister’ Presidency spending millions to stop Atiku's planned court action  - CUPP Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin