A House of Representatives member-elect for Abuja south federal constituency, Alhaji Hassan Sokodabo, has said he will draw the attention of government to the plight of the natives of the territory. Sokodabo stated this at a seminar organized by Institute for Peace And Conflict Resolution with theme “ Infrastructure for Peace Project on Grassroots Peace Platforms And Capacities for Women And Youths” held in Gwagwalada at the weekend. He noted that resources extracted from the Niger Delta “But in the case of the FCT, not only the resources but the lands are being taken away by the government without any compensation to the affected people of the territory.” Sokodabo, therefore, assured that he would ensure he engaged the government to ensure that the right things were done to the people of the FCT especially those who have lost their ancestral homes and other valuable pieces of land. In his welcome address, the acting director general of the Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution (IPCR) Dr. Bakut Tswah Bakut, said the seminar was organised for women and youths, saying it was a concept that encourages the creation and reinforcement of peace structures at all levels of the society in member state for the purpose of conflict prevention, management and resolution. “You will agree with me that in recent weeks, the level of violence is disturbing and as part of its mandate, the Institute is meeting with relevant stakeholders to help support the setting up of structures for peace and security in our communities, “ he said. He said the Institute was determined to provide structural capacity for peace support in practice through coordinated planning, which he said every individual are going to be responsible in promoting peaceful coextensive, tolerance and resilient in their various communities. According to him, the seminar was was aimed at educating and raising awareness of community members such as women and youths on the need to build peace. Abuja South constituents need credible representative – Sokodabo I will not relent in my struggle for FCT natives - Angulu Dobi PDP clears National Assembly seats in FCT Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin