The Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and a faction of the Labour Party (LP) in Ogun State are bickering as the Justice Josephine Coker-led reconstituted Ogun Election Petitions Tribunal is billed to resume pre-hearing sitting today. The former panel, headed by Justice Chinwe Onyeabo, had adjourned resumption of its Easter break till May 8, but the panel was replaced with the Justice Coker-led team following a reshuffle carried out by the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa. Daily Trust reports that the Chairman of APM, Yusuf Dantalle, had rejected the new panel, describing it as “premeditated and unacceptable”. Dantalle accused Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the National Leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, of influencing the disbandment of the former panel. However, the LP Secretary, Sunday Oginni, in a petition addressed to Bulkachuwa, expressed total support for the newly constituted panel. Our correspondent recalls that a petition marked EPT/OG/GOV/02/19 filed by the Oginni-led faction of LP had been dismissed by the disbanded panel for “abuse of process”. Oginni said, “It is erroneous for a petitioner or any group of persons to insinuate any misgiving or wrong accusation against the newly constituted panel. “As petitioners, we have absolute belief and conviction that your lordship reconstituted the Ogun State Governorship Election Tribunal and in other states of the federation to ensure fair hearing and justice across the nation. “That Justice Josephine Coker is also a capable and reliable jury of great repute and that we strongly believe that the governorship election tribunal under her watch will live up to expectation. “We hereby call on your lordship to disregard any form of petition insinuated to harass or discredit the newly constituted Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Ogun State,” Oginni said.  APM rejects reconstituted Ogun Tribunal, indicts Osinbajo, Tinubu We’ll resist APC’s move to frustrate our petition — APM chair Ogun: INEC denying LP access to election documents - Lawyer Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin