Police in the FCT have arrested three suspects for allegedly stealing N950,000 from an ATM in Abuja. In a statement, the command’s spokesman, ASP Danjuma Tanimu Gajere, said the suspects were arrested following a report it received from one Alhaju Usman Ahmadu, of Gwarimpa, Abuja, who went to withdraw money from the ATM in the area. He said the victim’s ATM got stocked in the machine, and the next day, he got an alert debiting him the sum of N950,000 from his account. He said the victim called the bank and blocked the ATM card, while  upon receipt of the complaint, police detectives, with the cooperation of the bank officials, got identity of the suspects. He gave the names of the suspects as Ernest Mensah, 23, a native of Anambra State; Obiuwevbi Ogheneovo, 23, a native of Delta State and Urunmatsoma Hendrix, 21, who is also a native of Delta State. According to him, the three suspects who admitted to committing the crime swapped the victim’s ATM card with one of theirs when the victim sought their assistance to withdraw money. The spokesman said the suspects later proceeded to a filling station along Kubwa expressway where they met with their accomplice by name Henry,who used a POS to transfer the money into the suspects accounts and remitted cash equivalent to the company. “And they have also confessed that it was their fourth operation around Gwarimpa area especially during the weekends.  Some gas station attendants working in a filling station in Kubwa are suspected to be conniving with the suspects have also been arrested,” he added. He gave their names as Henry O. Elvis, 34, Taiwo Aderinto, 36, Solomon Ojuola, 35, Mary Igoh, 37, Elizabeth Ozemina, 26, saying all the suspects would be charged to court after completion of investigation.  Police arrest suspected fraudster with 12 ATM cards in Enugu 7 suspected ATM card hackers arrested in Lagos …arrest couple, one other person over ATM theft in Jigawa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin