The name Bello Matawalle is not new in politics as he had served as commissioner in Zamfara State and a member of the National Assembly; but questions are being asked as to whether he has the capacity to change the tide in the state that is now famous for the wrong reason. He  was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2003 to represent Bakura/Maradun Federal Constituency under the defunct All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP). He served as the chairman of the House Committee on Ethics and Privileges during his first term. After a successful first term, the people of his constituency renewed his mandate by re-electing him to the House in 2007. Matawalle then became the deputy minority leader of the House, a position he served until when he dumped the ANPP and joined the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in his bid to become governor of Zamfara State in 2011. However, when he could not secure the PDP ticket for the governorship  which was picked by former Governor Mahmuda Aliyu Shinkafi, he was given the party’s ticket to return to the House which he won for the third consecutive term. During the 7th Assembly, Matawalle was appointed as the chairman of the House Committee on National Intelligence Security, oversighting the intelligence community of the country. He did not seek reelection in 2015, rather, he went and once again contested  for the governorship ticket of the PDP but like the previous attempt, he did not succeed. Immediately after he left the House in 2015, his name featured prominently among those that allegedly benefited from the arms money for which former National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki, is facing investigation. Matawalle reportedly left the country in the heat of the Dasuki arms probe, only to  return more than two years into the investigation. He contested for the PDP governorship ticket for the third term last October and won, defeating array of other contestants, including his former colleague in the House, Dr Ibrahim Gusau. During the governorship election in March, Matawalle came second, scoring 189,452 votes. Muktar Idris of the APC polled 534,541 votes and was declared winner. However, last Friday’s pronouncement by the Supreme Court that the APC did not have candidates for all elective offices in Zamfara State easily paved the way for Matawalle’s emergence as governor-elect and  will be sworn in tomorrow, along with his deputy governor-elect, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, who is the son of a former National Security Adviser General Aliyu Gusau. After the Supreme Court’s verdict, Matawalle took to his Twitter handle to say: “Alhamdulillah! This is a victory for Zamfara State, I’m ready more than ever to serve the good people of Zamfara State. We are ready to work with everyone regardless of political party in order to move our dear state forward.” But what do his colleagues who served with him in the House of Reps feel about him? Does he have the capacity to lead Zamfara  at this time of massive insecurity in the state? What difference can he make? Two serving APC members and one serving PDP member of the House, who spoke with Daily Trust, shared their views on the Zamfara governor-elect. One of the members, who said he related closely with Matawalle, believed that the Zamfara governor-elect may not make much difference in view of what he knew of him as a lawmaker. “I must say that he wasn’t a fantastic lawmaker, to be candid. I can’t remember seeing him even seconding a motion on the floor of the House as someone that spent eight years with him in the Green Chamber. So, I don’t really think he has the capacity, but this is Nigeria,” the lawmaker, who preferred to remain anonymous, said. Asked if Matawalle could make a difference with a good team, the lawmaker said, “Even if he has a good team, if he has a mindset of how he wants to run his government, the team can’t do anything to change him. “I know one of his priority will be to dislodge Yarima and become the political leader in the state. But, I also learnt that he may re-join APC in the long run. This is because Zamfara is largely an APC state; and for him to enjoy the popular support of the people and retain his seat in 2023, he will have to join the APC. If you remember Shinkafi lost  a second term as a sitting governor under the platform PDP. “Also, he has observed that Yari and Yarima are no longer on the same page, so he may want to join forces with Yarima to spite Yari. “His grouse with Yarima in the past was because he wanted to be governor at the same time with Yari, but when Yarima called to reconcile the two of them, he rejected the offer. Yarima said he should allow Yari to be governor, and that Yarima would leave the senate to allow him to contest for the seat, but he said no. “It was at that stage that he left the ANPP and joined PDP. He didn’t get the ticket, but he was given automatic ticket to return to the House under PDP, which he won,” he said. Another lawmaker who is a member of the  PDP said  Matawalle  has all it takes to make a difference. “I knew him even before I came to the National Assembly. He’s a very wise man. He’s a very determined person. If he faces a particular thing, he doesn’t relent. This is the third time he contested for governorship in the state. “He contested for governorship in 2015, but he lost the PDP ticket to Shinkafi because of certain interest. I know the case of his PDP ticket is still in court because Ibrahim Gusau took him to court. “But in terms of capacity, I think he has it;  he has the capacity because he is somebody that’s ready to learn. He always brings himself down as a person. He is consistent in learning,” he said. Similarly, another  member of the House of Representatives said: “We first met in 2007 when I came to the House and he was one of the leaders of the ANPP in the House at the time. I interacted very closely with him. I know him, he’s very upright and passionate about whatever he is doing. So, I think he has the capacity to favourably handle that office.” Asked about the kind of lawmaker Matawalle was, the member said: “I can’t say he was an excellent lawmaker, he was just an average lawmaker. “The truth is that during his last stay in the House between 2011 and 2015, he wasn’t stable. He wasn’t paying much attention or spending much time in the House. He was the chairman of security and intelligence, so he wasn’t concentrating on the activities of the House.” Born on December 12, 1969 in Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State, Matawalle attended the Maradun Township Primary School and finished in 1979. He also studied at the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos and Thames Valley University, London. Before joining politics in 1998, Matawalle had worked in the Sokoto State Ministry of Health and was a teacher in Government Girls College, Moriki and Kwatarkoshi. He then moved to the Federal Ministry of Water Resources before leaving the civil service to join the defunct United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP). His foray into politics appeared to have paid off  when Yarima as the first executive governor of Zamfara appointed him as commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs. He later moved to the ministry of environment and rural development and then youth and sports, all between 1999 and 2003. 2015: Zamfara’s 5 against 1 Supreme Court verdict: Faces of new winners APC’s many presidential ‘candidates’ Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin