Abia state indigenes in Anambra state on Thursday said they are fully in support of Hon. Nkiru Onyejiocha to become Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives. The group, in a statement issued in Awka, said Hon. Onyejiocha is eminently qualified for the post of the Speaker, given her antecedents and experience in lawmaking over the years. The statement was jointly signed by its Patrons, the Methodist Bishop of Onitsha, Dioceses, Rt. Rev B.L. Onuagha, and HRH Sylvester Elekwa of Agunato Autonomous Community in Umunneochi Local Government Area, alongside the group’s chairman, Comrade Damian Ogudike and secretary Engr. Iyke Okechukwu respectively. Daily Trust reports that Hon. Nkiru Onyejiocha (APC) is a member representing Isuikwato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency at lower chamber of national assembly. The group called on members of the green chamber to consider federal character and national interest and vote massively for Hon. Onyejiocha from South East. “Hon. Nkiru Onyejiocha bid for speakership in the 9th Assembly of the Green Chamber of the National Assembly is timely and apt, especially when the Igbos are claiming marginalisation in Nigeria. “In a time like this when no Igbo man is occupying any prominent position in the various MDAs and other establishments; in a time like this when the government is trying to maintain the unity of this highly polarized nation, we think that considering Hon. Nkiru Onyejiocha for the office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives is a nice ideal given where she is coming from,” they said. They said that making her the Speaker would ensure that all the regions in the country are given certain recognition in the affairs of the nation. “She has served in so many capacities at both the state and national levels and her records are there for everyone to see. “She is currently the House Committee chairman on Aviation in the Green Chamber of the 8th’ Assembly and she is wonderful doing well with her colleagues. “Having considered all these and many more, we enjoined all well-meaning Abians, Igbos and Nigerians to support Hon. Nkiru Onyejiocha in her bid to become the Speaker of the 9th Assembly,” the statement said. APC’s Onyejeocha, Kalu win in Abia Speakership: Women group launches campaign for Onyejeocha APC urged to zone speakership to S/East Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin