The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Governors’ Forum has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency on security in the country. This is as Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State emerged Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum to succeed Governor Hassan Dankwambo of Gombe State, whose tenure expires at the end of this month. Addressing a press conference at the end of the PDP governors’ meeting with the leadership of the National Working Committee (NWC) and National Assembly tonight in Abuja, the Gombe State governor, Hassan Dankwambo said the current security situation in the country was worrisome. “The PDPGF is very concerned about the state of insecurity and how it affects food security as farmers are scared to go to their farms for fear of being killed or kidnapped and urges the President to declare a state of emergency on security matters,” he said. He added that: “Following a consensus agreement, Governor Henry Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has been elected Chairman of the PDPGF to succeed Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo, whose tenure expires by the end of the month.’ When asked whether the meeting discussed the issue of the 9th Assembly leadership and also took a position on who becomes the next Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, Damkwambo said nothing of such was discussed. Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom), Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (Sokoto), Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa), Hassan Dankwambo (Gombe), Samuel Ortom (Benue) and Imo State governor- elect, Emeka Ihedioha among others were at the meeting. Also at the meeting were the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus; Senate President Bukola Saraki; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and PDP vice presidential candidate for the February 23, 2019 election, Chief Peter Obi. PDP ‘relocates’ to Ekiti for mega rally Dickson warns against rigging in Bayelsa, Kogi polls Atiku, governors absent at NEC meeting as PDP strategizes ahead of rerun polls Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin