The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), yesterday, chided the PDP for criticising the award of excellence given to President Muhammadu Buhari by the APC governors. The BCO which described the ranting by the PDP as a sign of envy, said the leading opposition party was still suffering from the trauma of electoral defeat. In a statement  by its Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the BCO was unsparing of PDP which had on Saturday issued a statement condemning the excellence award given to Buhari by the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), tagging it as a “shameful endorsement of failure”. Ibrahim said, “Just when we thought the PDP has learnt its lesson after being confined to political oblivion in the 2019 elections, the party on Saturday demonstrated that it still suffers from the trauma of electoral defeat. The price for being true to type in this regard must go to Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan who describes himself by the name National Publicity Secretary of the PDP. “Ologbondiyan displayed such habitual mendacity which the BCO considers offensive and needlessly disruptive. His subject is the award of excellence presented to President Muhammadu Buhari by APC governors. “In a statement he issued on Saturday, the spokesman of the main opposition party claimed the award given to the president by the PGF was a shameful endorsement of failure. We invite more cerebral and right-thinking persons to consider the facts. Governors of a ruling party deemed it fit to honour their president who in the face of daunting challenges has been able to keep the country as one and the opposition is making a storm out of a tea cup. “We consider the insinuation about the Buhari Presidency and the APC choosing “to engage in endless unprofitable celebrations in Aso Rock” as utterly thoughtless and misleading. They can’t certainly be talking about a president who is a well-focused man of achievements. Before and after his re-election, President Buhari has not left any stone unturned in tackling the security situation in the country, which has seen bandits, kidnappers and other criminal elements displaced and arrested.” ...BCO wants INEC to call PDP to order over Buhari Buhari certificate saga:  Shift priority now, BCO tells PDP BCO: INEC deserves kudos for frustrating opposition’s rigging plot Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin