The Nigerian Meteorological Agency, NiMet, has predicted cloudy weather conditions with prospects of widespread thunderstorm activities over most parts of the country on Sunday. NiMet’s Weather Outlook on Saturday, in Abuja, predicted thunderstorm activities over the central cities such as Abuja, Ibi, Jalingo, Lokoja, Makurdi, Jos, Kaduna, Minna, Lafia, Mambilla and Ilorin axis in the morning hours. It also predicted cloudy conditions with thunderstorm over the high ground cities of Makurdi, Lokoja, Abuja, Lafia and Minna as the day processes with day and night temperatures of 27 to 35 and 18 to 27 degrees Celsius. The agency predicted that Northern States would experience partly cloudy to cloudy morning with chances of thunderstorm activities over Sokoto, Yelwa, Gausa, and Kastina axis. It further predicted partly cloudy conditions with thunderstorm activities over Kastina, Kano, Gausa and Zaria later in the day with day and night temperatures of 37 to 41 and 26 to 29 degrees Celsius. According to NiMet, Southern States will experience cloudy conditions over the inland parts with possibilities of thunderstorms activities over Abeokuta, Ibadan, Akure, Benin, Osogbo and Ado-Ekiti axis in the morning hours. “Widespread thunderstorm activities are anticipated over the entire region in the afternoon into evening hours with day and night temperatures of 32 to 36 and 23 to 25 degrees Celsius. “The influx of moisture is consistent, resulting in thunderstorm activities over some parts of the Northern and Central states with possibilities of widespread thunderstorm activities over the Southern states in the next 24 hours,” NiMet predicted. (NAN) NiMet predicts cloudy weather, rains NiMet predicts cloudy, sunny weather for Thursday See Sunday's weather in Nigeria as predicted by NiMet Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin