The immediate past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, has attributed his revolutionary achievements in the oil and gas sector to a deliberate collegiate system of administration and not achievements singly brought about. Speaking at the valedictory event for him on Tuesday in Abuja, the minister paid glowing tribute to President Muhammadu Buhari from who he said he learnt the dignity of silence and trust in the capacity of others. In a statement by Oyetomi Olujimi, the Head, Press Unit of the ministry, Kachikwu expressed gratitude for the vibrancy and support he got from the permanent secretary, heads of agencies, directors in the ministry, his advisers and assistants and his support staff. He pledged that in or out of government, he would always be around as a support voice and advocate for the best way to go in the oil and gas sector. One of the highlights of the valedictory event was a short documentary showcasing the “7 Big Wins” which encompassed the thrust of Dr. Kachikwu’s administration of the oil and gas sector. The ex-minister encouraged the heads of agencies to find ways of supporting the permanent secretary and directors in the ministry, saying it was his panacea for productivity and progress of the sector, adding that there was still a lot of work to do to grow the sector. Kachikwu attributed most of the gains of his administration of the ministry to the 7 Big Wins which he said led to policies and transparency in the sector; no queues at fuel stations, consultations and peace in the Niger Delta with attendant increases in the barrels of oil produced for the international market, bringing respect to Nigeria’s position in OPEC and the world’s oil and gas sector and more. Kachikwu/Baru feud raises fresh turmoil in oil sector Buhari-Kachikwu achievements in the oil and gas industry Of Kachikwu and Baru Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin