The second phase of Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) registration database will soon be launched by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to track kidnappers and armed bandits, Daily Trust reports. NCC said it would begin the second phase of its ongoing audit of SIM registration data and registration processes across all Mobile Network Operator (MNO) platforms. The audit is specifically to monitor operators’ strict adherence to the technical and other specifications for the subscriber registration as prescribed by the NCC’s Telephone Subscribers Registration Regulations of 2011 and the Technical Standards and Specifications issued by the commission in 2011, NCC said in a statement yesterday. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said in the statement: “The NCC is very sensitive to the fact that the Subscriber Registration Database is a veritable tool being used by security and law enforcement agencies in the detection and apprehension of criminal elements involved in heinous crimes like kidnapping, financial crimes, armed robbery, banditry, cattle rustling and other crimes which leverage on easy access to the national telecoms network. “As such, we are determined to continue to ensure that all SIM cards are traceable to their real owners with the least effort.” He allayed the fear of consumers, saying “during this audit, there will be no disruption of service to law-abiding consumers who have genuinely registered their SIMs – we have made sure of that by designing the exercise in such a way that we can gauge compliance at measured intervals using very professional tools and standards.” 95m subscribers’ SIM registration data undergoing scrubbing, verification - NCC MTN fined N1.4tr over unregistered users National database: NCC’s verifying SIMs, harmonising data with NIMC Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin