No fewer than four officials of the Lagos State Taskforce sustained varying degree of injuries when they were ambushed by some suspected hoodlums at the Adeniji Adele area of Lagos Island. The officials were said to have been attacked by the hoodlums while clamping down on motorcycle operators plying restricted routes on the Oworonsoki, Adeniji Adele junction, Obalende, Falomo, Lekki Phase (1) and Ikoyi link-bridge routes. Seven persons, who the police said participated in the attack, have been arrested. The Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force, Chief Superintendent Olayinka Egbeyemi, confirmed the arrest and described the arrested persons as commercial motorcycle operators. Egbeyemi said that the suspects allegedly hauled stones, bottles and iron rod on the officials, whom he said were seriously injured and were being treated in an undisclosed hosiital. He said that during the enforcement operations carried out around the effected areas, 92 motorcycles were impounded for plying restricted routes, which included highways and bridges. “During the enforcement operations, some suspected motorcyclists started shouting and calling the attention of their colleagues in their native language. Thereafter, other motorcycle operators from nowhere started throwing stones, bottles and iron rods at my officers,” he said. He added that while two police officers were injured with heavy stones on the head, two other paramilitary officers were attacked with broken bottles on their legs. Egbeyemi said the state government would no longer tolerate the slightest attack on officers and men of the agency, as he recalled a recent attack on a police officer with the agency on enforcement duty who died as a result of serious injuries he sustained from attack by hoodlums in the Mile 12 area of the state.  Bulldozers demolish structures under bridges, at motor parks JUST IN: Lagos government arrests 26 suspected cultists Taskforce arrests 10 Gokada riders, impounds 23 bikes Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin