Globacom has been initiated into Nigeria’s ICT Hall of Fame at the 10th anniversary of the Beacon of Information and Communication Technology (BoICT) Awards and also won the “Most Innovative Mobile Player of the Year” award at the same event. The induction into the ICT Hall of Fame was for the company’s remarkable contribution to the growth of Nigeria’s telecommunication sector. This was announced at a colourful ceremony held in Lagos and attended by leaders of the nation’s ICT industry. The Chairman of the Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Mr. Gbenga Adebayo, described Globacom as an icon in the industry while presenting the award to Globacom’s representatives, Eric Uwaoma, Head, Enterprise Solutions, Oluwakemi Akinyele of Training Development Unit and Raj Narayan, Head, Mobile Money. The ALTON chairman urged all the awardees to see the awards as a recognition of their achievements and contributions to the development of the industry, which he described as the “most reliable” sector in the country and a “major driver” of the economy. Adebayo, who charted the trajectory of Nigeria’s telecommunication industry from the analogue era to the present Digital Switch Over (DSO) era, submitted that but for the innovative introduction of Per Second Billing (PSB) system introduced by Globacom, the industry would have taken longer to evolve. He appealed to government to wade into the issue of multiple taxation in the industry and make conscious effort to protect the industry’s critical infrastructure; viewing the recent threat by the Nigerian Airspace Management Authority (NAMA) to shut down operators’ base transceiver stations as a threat to national security which would have grave consequences for the country.  Layer3 wins best cloud solutions provider second year Glo’s consistency earned it Innovative Player Award – BoICT Glo gets Best Women Enterprise Support Award Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin