Telecommunication giant, MTN Group, has announced the appointment of His Royal Highness, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, the Emir of Kano, to its board of directors effective from July, 2019. HRH Sanusi was the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) from 2009 to 2014, during which he was named one of the 100 Most Influential People In the World (2011) by TIME, and was voted the CBN Governor of the Year by Banker Magazine. Welcoming him and other new directors to the board, the outgoing MTN Group Chairman, Phuthuma Nhleko, said, “We are confident that the incoming directors of the board will bring a wealth of experience, depth of skills and regional insights that will continue to enrich the experience of the board.” In a statement issued in Johannesburg, South Africa, at the weekend, MTN Group also announced the establishment of an International Advisory Board (IAB) of prominent persons of considerable and wide-ranging experience. The primary purpose of the IAB will be to counsel, guide and support the MTN Group from time to time in fulfilling its vision and objective of being one of the premier African corporations with a global footprint in telecommunication, contributing to increased digital inclusion in Africa and the Middle East, a pivotal aspect of the fourth industrial revolution. The six-member board will be chaired by a former South African President, Thabo Mbeki, and includes Dr. Aisha Abdullahi from Nigeria. Dr. Aisha is a former African Union (AU) Commissioner for Political Affairs and a former Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Guinea. A Fellow of the Chemical Society of Nigeria, she holds a PhD in Organic Chemistry from the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi. The MTN Group’s board is of the view that MTN has entered a more stable and settled period which enables it to now effect an evolution of the board following recent challenging regulatory environments and competitive trading conditions.  Sanusi takes throne as Emir of Kano Stop this campaign of calumny against HRH Malam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi One turbulent week for new Emir Sanusi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin