The European Union (EU) Support to Federal Government Reform Programme (EU-SUFEGOR) spent a whooping €20m on varieties of reforms to deepen good governance in Nigeria. The Team Leader of the EU-SUFEGOR, Prof. Olaseni Akintola-Bello, said this in Abuja at the formal winding off of the five-year project. According to him, the Treasury Single Account (TSA), Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) and Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) among other policies are positive developments the country must strengthen and consolidate with others policies and strategies. He said the project was mostly implemented with the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR), Ministry of Budget and National Planning (MBNP), Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (OHoCSF), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) under varieties of sub-projects. On her part, the Head of Section -Economic Cooperation and Energy, EU, Ms. Nadia Cannata, said the project has achieved high-level policy meeting on effective policy monitoring and evaluation for the development of a policy framework checklist. “There is the development of the medium term sector strategy (MTSS) through the provision of trainers, analysis of sector wide approaches in Africa and production of a citizen’s guide to the budget,” Cannata said. She said there was also the training of over 300 public servants in ICT capacity building. On his part the Acting Director-General, Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR), Mr. Dasuki Arabi, represented by Head, Internal Audit of the bureau, Mr. Fola Ibn Aliu, said part of the achievement of the project was the production of up to date Compendium of Public Service Reforms for easy references for policy makers, apart from trainings and capacity building for over 600 public service officials. “It has also financed the production of an on-line self-assessment tool which has been found useful for assessing the management and organizational performance of public agencies,” Arabi said.  EU spends €20m on Nigeria reforms EU supports FG civil service reforms with N4.6bn 2016 budget: Only capital votes rolls over, FG says Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin