The Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Mr. Godwin Emefiele has said the apex bank is currently investigating the accounts of individuals and corporate organisations currently involved in smuggling and dumping textile materials into Nigeria. Mr Emefiele disclosed this yesterday when he flagged-off the distribution of cotton seeds and other inputs to over 100,000 cotton farmers in Katsina State for the 2019 farming season. The aim is to revive Nigeria’s cotton, textiles and garments sector, a statement from the Bank quoted Mr. Emefiele as saying. He said the aim is to blacklist the individuals and companies involved in the illicit trade. He also said all banks in Nigeria would be barred from conducting any banking business with the companies, their owners and top management. The move is also aimed at improving cotton production from the 80,000 tonnes produced in 2018 to over 300,000 tonnes by 2020. The national flag-off of distribution of cotton seeds/inputs to farmers for the 2019 planting season in Katsina was attended by the governors of Katsina State, Governor Bello Masari and Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, as well as the Minister of Agriculture Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh. He reiterated that the foreign exchange restriction on finished textiles and other 42 items remained in force. Prior to the flag-off, he noted that the CBN had identified insufficient cotton seeds as one of the major challenges facing cotton farmers, hence the Bank sought to change the narrative on the cotton and textile industry in Nigeria through the distribution of high yielding cotton seeds to farmers. According to him, the provision of seedlings to more than 100,000 farmers cultivating over 200,000 hectares of farmland, along with extensive training on proper farming techniques, will boost production of high grade cotton lint at much improved yields of up to four tonnes per hectare, from the current level of less than one tonne per hectare. He said the move would also reduce the amount spent by Nigeria on imported textiles and ready-made clothing estimated at about $4billion annually. Mr. Emefiele also disclosed that the package included fertilizer, pesticides and knapsack sprayers. He added that the National Cotton Association of Nigeria will ensure compliance of its members with the stipulated terms for the support that will be provided to farmers.  Nigeria spends $4bn on importation of textile materials, ready-made clothing—CBN CBN moves to revive cotton production CBN bans forex sale  to textile importers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin