Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have started scrambling for Micro Pension Plan (MPP) participants from petty traders and artisans across the country. Earlier this year, President Muhammadu Buhari launched the micro pension scheme in line with the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014, which expanded the coverage of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to the self-employed and persons working in organizations with less than three employees. PFAs have already started visiting markets, workshops and informal sector clusters to market micro pension product to petty traders, mechanics, barbers, hairdressers, carpenters and other artisans. Daily Trust observed that most PFAs have guidelines on how to join the new micro pension scheme on their websites, in addition to on-going mobile marketing and media sensitisations. The President of Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp), Ronke Adedeji explained that informal sector workers, which the micro pension product targets constitute the larger percentage of the working population in the country. PenOp believes that to achieve the Pension Industry’s strategic objective of covering 30 per cent of the working population in Nigeria under the CPS by the end of 2024, all efforts should be on deck to extend coverage to this important segment of the Nigerian economy. However, the implementation may not be without challenges considering the peculiarities of the workers in the informal sector: irregular income, low income, dispersed nation, low literacy and poor record keeping. Though most of these special characteristics have been taken care of in the draft guidelines and the MPP Framework released by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), PFAs must take extra measure in adopting technologies and innovations to make participation seamless for informal sector workers. Information sourced from PenOp showed that PFAs have segmented the informal sector into three broad categories: the low income earners, the high income earners and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Each of these categories is going to be targeted with appropriate pension products and sensitisation programmes that meet their peculiarities. In terms of technology, PenOp, being the umbrella body of PFAs, understands that “a robust technological platform that would support the provision of customer services is necessary to effectively and efficiently register, collect contributions, provide Retirement Savings Account support, pay benefits and provide financial advisory services to this class of workers.” Coincidently, special mobile phone applications had been successfully implemented in some jurisdictions for financial transactions including provision of pension services to the self-employed and informal sector workers. The success stories of these applications drives the confidence that similar platform can be designed and implemented in Nigeria. Shortly before the launch of the Plan, the Acting Director General of PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, told Daily Trust that the Commission had optimised the necessary Information Technology infrastructure\platform required for hitch free registration of contributors and contribution collection under the Micro Pension Plan. The PenCom boss said the automation of the platform was to ensure that the roll out of the Plan and implementation would be seamless. PenCom expects that successful implementation of micro pension in Nigeria would translate to a significant 85 per cent reduction in old age poverty in the country.  Experts express expectations as informal sector gets micro pension plan Artisans, traders ready for micro pension scheme kick-off Workers need to save for life after work - Aremu Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin