President Muhammadu Buhari was not clear in his speech yesterday as to whether he will retain or sack his ministers, a lecturer at the University of Abuja, Dr. Abubakar Umar Kari, has said. In a telephone interview last night, Dr. Kari who teaches at the Department of Sociology at the university, however, said President Buhari took millions of Nigerians by surprise with the way he appreciated the outgoing ministers. “The president surprisingly poured encomiums on members of his cabinet; he praised them to high heavens for what he considered their starling performance in office,” Dr. Kari observed. “He even claimed that it was because of performance that he kept them in office for the four-year tenure. He also said history will be good to them. I am not sure if many Nigerians would agree with him,” he said. Dr. Kari said but it was normal because Buhari was the one who had worked with them; and perhaps they lived up to his own expectation, not necessarily the expectation of Nigerians. “But I am sure many Nigerians are not going to agree with at least the performance of some of them. It is the typical way third world leaders speak about people close to them; but if there is any surprise as I mentioned earlier, it is the generous use of praise and the encomium that he poured on them.” On whether what the president said could mean all the ministers would be reconsidered for appointment, Dr. Kari said, “Well on the surface, nothing in the speech gave any indication as to his next line of action about the members of the cabinet. “However, perhaps, if you do a deeper content analysis of the speech itself, it gives the impression that he was satisfied with their performance and perhaps, if we use logic, particularly the law of syllogism- if you are satisfied with someone’s performance, there is the likelihood that you will want to tap along with him once again. “But it could also be a rhetoric…Maybe he didn’t want to condemn them and maybe the encomiums that he poured on them were enough rewards. But his speech is generally ambivalent or categorical about his next line of action beyond the fact that it was very clear, judging by the wordings of the speech he was satisfied with their performance in the past three and half years,” he said. 2019 Campaigns Heat Up Page 24 Insurance/Pension 2019: Who will run if Buhari decides not to? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin