The 6 Division of the Nigerian Army has denied the allegations by Governor Nyesome Wike of Rivers State that the General Officer Commanding the 6 Division in Port Harcourt, Major General Jamil Sarham is involved in oil bunkering. A press statement in Port Harcourt on Monday night by the Division’s Spokesman, Col. Aminu Iliyazu, said the video clip released to some sections of the press and social media outlets in respect of the matter was false. He said that the allegations were false and figment of Governor Wike’s imagination, saying that the allegation was a deliberate effort to tarnish the towering image of the Chief of Army Staff and the General Officer Commanding 6 Division. “It is imperative to state the campaign of calumny against General Sarham and the Nigerian Army leadership by Governor Wike did not start today. Recall that on 22nd February 2019, Governor  Wike brazenly alleged that there was an attempt to exterminate his life by assassins organised by the GOC 6 Division. “As weighty as the allegation was, we are yet to know any action taken by Mr Wike that guarantees his safety. Mr Wike has since failed to use civilised legitimate options to prove his allegations against Maj Gen Sarham,” he stated. On the accusation against General Sarham leaking proceeds of State Security Council Meetings to criminals in Rivers State, Iliyazu said Governor Wike knew that Maj Gen Sarham was not a member of the Rivers State Security Council, neither had he ever approached the gates of Rivers State Government House since his assumption of office as the GOC 6 Division, saying that the Governor only came face to face with General Sarham on the 15th of January 2019 during the 2019 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Parade at Isaac Boro Park. He challenged the Governor to provide the public with any evidence of such meetings with Maj Gen Sarham in attendance. “Accordingly, Wike’s allegation against Major General Sarham’s selfish involvement in illegal oil bunkering is another reckless, spurious and mischievous accusation. Hence, Headquarters 6 Division wish to request the Governor to take the most civilised way of putting up a petition to the relevant authorities to make a point. “Mr Wike’s resentment against the GOC is based on the latter’s choice of professionalism and integrity over the billions of naira offered to him by the Governor to compromise the 2019 General Elections. His refusal to be bought over and the rejection of such hefty offer is the genesis of Wike’s hatred and vociferous criticisms against Maj Gen Sarham”, he stated. Army denies assassination attempt on Wike Army denies alleged assassination attempt on Governor Wike Rivers: 15 political parties deny endorsing Wike Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin