The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Edo Command, has sealed no fewer than five Private Guards Companies (PGCs) operating illegally in the state. The state Commandant, Mr Makinde Ayinla, disclosed this on Thursday in Benin, at a one-day seminar organised for Directors and Managers of PGCs. Represented by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Mr Efosa Ogbebor, Ayinla explained that the PGCs were sealed for illegal operation and failure to renew operational licences. He explained that the decision was also to ensure efficiency in the command’s operations. He said there were currently 81 registered and licenced PGCs operatiing in the state. He noted that the seminar was first in series of counter terrorism trainings to equip PGCs in modern security challenges, especially terrorism. He also said that the workshop was directed by the Commandant General of the Corps, Alhaji Abdullahi Gana, following the new trend of global terrorism. He explained that Gana had given all commands the matching order to ensure that all licensed security companies operating within their states had basic knowledge of counter terrorism training. He also said that the training was crucial following myriads of problems bedeviling the country. The guest speaker, Mr Theophilus Okpunu, of the command’s counter terrorism unit, who spoke on ”Terrorism Awareness, Suspicious Items, Insider Threats, Fire Arms and Weapon Attacks”, said terrorism was classified into four. (NAN) Okpunu said these were Political Terrorism, Criminal Terrorism, State Terrorism and Repressive State sponsored Terrorism. He advised that whenever there was an explosive, people should avoid rushing to the scene of the incident immediately so as to minimise casualties. Speaking, Mr Subway Osazuwa, State Chairman, Association of Licensed Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria, said for more professional responsive private security outfit, there was need for training and certification of security guards. (NAN) NSCDC arrests 21 suspects in Edo NSCDC to prosecute unlicensed private guard operators NSCDC to use 200 dogs for operations Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin