The acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has called for an upgrade of the West African Police Chief Committee (WAPCCO) to a Directorate in the ECOWAS to enable it function better. He made this known on Tuesday at the commencement of the 16th General Assembly of WAPCCO, held at the National Universities Commission, Abuja. He said WAPCCO as it is currently situated within the broader structure of ECOWAS is inhibiting the ability of the body to optimally attain its mandate. He suggested a review of the status of WAPCCO within the ECOWAS Secretariat and upgraded to a Directorate in ECOWAS, adding that, “this will guarantee the regularity of WAPCCO meetings thereby enhancing the effectiveness of the Committee.” Adamu said the last meeting of WAPCCO was as far back as 2014, noting that, this gap has impacted the ability of member countries to constantly and effectively review the security situation in the region and proffer solutions. He said WAPCCO was established in 1997 by Heads of States and Governments of West African region to provide a platform for regional law enforcement cooperation against crimes and security threats in the region. He said the assembly of regional chiefs of police is designed to undertake periodic review of regional security threats and evolve strategies to combat trans-border crimes. These he said include: terrorism, drugs traffic, illegal proliferation of weapons and ammunition, human trafficking, migrant smuggling, cattle-herders activities, sea-piracy, armed banditry and money laundering. He said the meeting presents a platform for member-countries to review the level of implementation of recommendations at previous meetings and exchange information needed to enhance security among member-states. IGP hosts ECOWAS police chiefs over transnational crimes 15 things you should know about new IGP, Adamu ECOWAS, ICRC review humanitarian law implementation in W/Africa Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin