The coalitions of Northern Youth Groups and Southern Youth Groups have urged the federal government to redouble its efforts to end kidnapping and other criminalities by deploying alternative mechanism like community policing and use of the traditional rulers. This is contained in a communique of the third joint session jointly signed by the leaders of the coalition of Assembly of Southern Youth Nigeria (ASYN), Victor Udoh and Northern Women Assembly of Nigeria (NWAN), Maiwade Abubakar Jemilu. Other groups also present at the session include Northern Nigeria Youth Assembly (NNYA) and Arewa Youth Council (AYC). The communique also condemned the high spate of kidnapping and insecurity in the nation. “We equally seek a permanent end to farmers/herders conflict through the instrumentality of alternative dispute resolution methodology. We also want to laud the effort of Enugu State Governor, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi who was adjudged the ‘Best Governor in Nigeria’. “The Deputy Governor of Nasarawa state, Silas Ali Agara was also adjudged the ‘Best Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State’ in Nigeria between 2015-2019 for his loyalty, resourcefulness in leadership, support for youths, humility and capacity to manage crisis situation in tandem with his boss ideology,” the communique reads in parts. The communique said Ugwuanyi would be awarded for his proactive and quick resolution of the farmers/herders crisis in the state, and other landmark infrastructural development. The coalition said that the readiness of Nigeria youth to serve as instrument in the resolution of these disputes in the building of a greater united Nigeria is never in doubt. It said, “Critically evaluating 2015-2019 political administration of Nigeria. The coalition observed some progress made in the areas of infrastructure development, outstanding leadership pattern and resourcefulness of some political leaders of the states in Nigeria.“ Group counsels FG on Boko Haram Quit notice:  Coalition of ethnic nationalities call for calm, confab Quit notice:  Coalition of ethnic nationalities appeal for calm, demand confab Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin