The Federal Government yesterday inaugurated a 14-man committee to strengthen internal security framework and community policing in Nigeria. This comes a week after the acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu said President Muhammadu Buhari has directed him to immediately commence the implementation of community policing strategy across the country. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Gida Mustapha, who inaugurated the committee in his office, recalled that President Buhari had tasked the Senior Executive Course 40, 2018 of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru to undertake a study of the rising insecurity in Nigeria. He said the committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Special Services Offices (SSO), Dr. Amina Shamaki, is expected to complete the assignment and submit its report within two months. He said the committee’s terms of reference are: To study and analyze the findings; Recommendations and implementation strategies of the Presidential Parley Report by NIPPS and come up with policy statement for the consideration of Mr. President. Other members of the committee are Mrs. Beatrice Jeddy-Agb, Mrs. Odunbanjo Adebisi, Sanusi Galadima, Brig-Gen J. O. Ochai and Commodore J. N. Mamman, Air Cdre A. H. Bakari, AIG David O. Folawiyo, Jimat Bakare, CP Olayinka Balogun, Dr. E.O. Adeoye, Dr. Joseph Ochogwu, Prof. Sani Abubakar Lugga, Dr. Nasirudeen Usman, and Tukur Yahaya, who will act as Secretary of the committee. Chairman of the committee, Mrs. Shamaki, noted that the challenges of criminality have taken a serious toll on the socio-economic well-being of the nation.  Insecurity: FG inaugurates Community Policing c’ttee Nigeria remains strongest economy in Africa – Buhari Senate invites police IG over community policing Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin