The Chief Imam of Area 10 Garki Jumma’at Mosque, Sheikh Yahya Al-Yolawi, has advised Muslims to increase devotion, generosity and sacrifice during the coming month of Ramadan. Al-Yolawi gave the advice while delivering Jumma’at sermon titled, “Significance of Ramadan Fast “ on Friday, in Abuja. The cleric encouraged Muslims to invite others to break the fast with them at sunset, and gather for the Qur’anic study, tafsir and taraaweeh and tahajjud prayers. According to him, anybody who offers meal for the breaking of the fast of another person, earns the same reward as the one who was observing the fast without taking in any way the reward of the fasting person. He said that the significance and benefits of fasting to a believer could not be over-emphasised due to the number of mercies and blessings of Allah towards Muslims throughout the month. He said that fasting was a protection and a shield against the fire of Hell, adding that fasting had health, moral, spiritual, social and economic benefits. Al-Yolawi said studies revealed that fasting promotes resolution of inflammatory diseases and allergies such rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis and skin diseases. The cleric explained that fasting trains the believer in piety and sincerity and teaches Muslims the principle of sincere Love of Allah because “when a Muslim observes fasting, he does it out of deep love for Allah. “ “The Almighty and Master of Honour says; “all other actions of a person are for himself, except the case of fasting, which is exclusively for Me and I shall pay (recompense) for him for the same’. “Therefore, when anyone of you is fasting he should abstain from loose talk and avoid evil talks and noisy exchange of words. If somebody starts abusing him or picks up a quarrel with him, he should tell him that, ‘I am observing a fast.“ Al-Yolawi also said that fasting promotes the spirit of unity and belonging within the Muslim Ummah, adding that millions of Muslims all over the world fast, during the same month following the same rules and observances. (NAN) WELCOME, O RAMADAN! (III) Ramadan: Watching what we eat! Why must Muslims fast in the month of Ramadan? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin