Senator Ahmed Lawan, a leading contender for the position of senate president in the coming 9th National Assembly, has said he will not run a senate that will be seen as a rubber stamp to the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive arm of government. Sen. Lawan who fielded questions from journalists over the weekend in Abuja, said his support for President Buhari must not be misconstrued as a sign that he would make the National Assembly a rubber stamp. The lawmaker representing Yobe North said he supported the previous administration of the PDP on issues that were of national interest and opposed the same government when necessary. “There is nothing like rubber stamp. I believe in President Muhammadu Buhari. I believe in my party, but then, if you believe in someone, if that person has an issue that you think can be better carried out in a certain way other than the way it was presented to you, for God sake, can’t you say I’m suggesting we go this way? If you allow the direction that may not be right to be followed, the end of it will be catastrophic, and that is not showing support,” he said. On whether the Supreme Court judgement on Zamfara State that awarded APC senatorial and House of Representatives seats to the PDP could alter the number when the election holds, Lawan described the situation as a setback but added that it would not affect his chances. “That leaves us with a new set of number to be represented in the National Assembly. Let me state clearly, what the standing of each political party is today with that judgment. The APC had 65 senators before the judgment, and with that judgment, now the APC has 62 senators. The PDP has 44. It had 41 and with the additional three, it has 44 and the YPP has one. “There are two cases that have not been determined yet in Imo State and we are expecting of course that the APC will have those two seats. One sit is that of Governor Rochas Okorocha, and then Senator Ben Uwajumogu, who is a serving Senator. If we get those, then APC will have 64. So, APC is still clearly the party in the majority. “What is important here though, to me, is not the distribution, it’s not the figure for each political party, but our ability to come together, to work together for the benefit of Nigerians,” he added. Lawan further said his candidacy could not be described as an imposition as he had contacted more than 98 per cent of all the senators-elect across all the political platforms of APC, PDP and YPP. NASS leadership: VON DG roots for Lawan, Gbajabiamila Senate won’t be rubber stamp under me — Lawan I never imagined I’d be in politics – Sen. Lawan Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin