From Nurudeen Oyewole, Lagos  The outgoing Lagos State governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, is set to commission multiple projects his administration had embarked upon and completed within the last four years. The state’s Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr Ade Akinsanya, disclosed in a statement yesterday that the “commissioning galore” would commence today. According to Akinsanya, the first set of projects to be commissioned are the Ilaje Road and Bariga Waterfront Jetty, as well as a car park designed to enhance intermodal transportation and improve connectivity from the mainland to the island and Ikorodu axes, while seven new “world-class” ferries would also be unveiled. “The Lagos State government has procured seven ferries, five of which will be commissioned. They are named after monumental events, notable towns and Lagos deities as a reminder of our historical values. The names are Itesiwaju Eko, Ipakodo, Alausa, Adamu-Orisa, Ejinrin, Eko-Akete and Zangbeto. These are ferries that the  itizens will find comfortable and safe, as well as affordable. “Another project scheduled for commissioning is the new Senate Building of the Lagos State University (LASU) in Ojo, which is yet another confirmation of the commitment of Gov Ambode’s administration towards ensuring meaningful growth in the education sector. This project will change the landscape of the university and will remain another legacy project of this administration,” Akinsanya said. He revealed that a number of road projects would also be inaugurated. The statement explained that from 2015 till date, the state government has undertaken a total of 342 roads rehabilitation and construction projects amounting to 365 kilometres of single carriageway and 5.3km of bridges.   Ambode unveils ultra-modern ferry terminal, multi-level car park Ambode gives auto mechanics 7 days to quit site Eko Atlantic City designed to boost economy – Ambode Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin