The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) have charged Microfinance Banks (MFBs) to embrace self-regulation and consolidation to enhance performance and sustainability of the sector. The National Association of Microfinance Banks (NAMB) then called for standardised performance measures and requirements for operators in the subsector. These were the highlights of the fifth annual symposium of the Nigeria Microfinance Platform held in Ibadan, Oyo State, with the theme: “Self-Regulation for Sustainability and Development of the Microfinance Sector”. The CBN Deputy Governor, Financial Sector Surveillance, CBN, Mrs. Aisha Ahmad, stressed the need for self-regulation in the MFB subsector, saying, “A comprehensive oversight mechanism is required for effective supervision of microfinance activities of over 900 licensed MFBs; this is where the relevance of a self-regulatory organisation comes into play.” Country Director of IFC, Eme Essien, stressed that in addition to self-regulation, there was need for consolidation in the MfB sector, noting that most of the MFBs in the country were small and their viability was fragile. Essien said, “There must be pursuit of consolidation in the sector. We hope that the smaller banks will look for partnership with other larger ones.” NAMB President, Mr. Rogers Nwoke said, “The CBN will also have to make MFB ratings a condition to receiving intervention funds and other incentives, and allow for peer-group differentiation, use of external validation, production of scores and penalties for non-compliance.”  The benefits of CBN’s new minimum capital base for Microfinance Banks Microbanks, macro-burdens - The don’t give loans, pay salaries When fraudsters take over micro finance banks Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin