The Nigerian Army, on Saturday, alleged that some unpatriotic elements in collaboration with foreigners were planning to derail the swearing in of newly elected government on May 29 in order to scuttle the nation’s democratic process. “Some of these mischievous elements thought that we would not have a safe and successful general elections but were proved wrong, hence they want to derail the scheduled handing over later this month and to scuttle the democratic process in the country,” army spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa said in a statement. Musa alleged that the unpatriotic elements plan to do that by causing mischief and exacerbate security situation in the country in particular and West African Sub-region. He further alleged that the group was making concerted efforts to further induce ISWAP/Boko Haram terrorists and bandits with funds and other logistic supports. “Their body language and unguarded utterances seem to be in tandem with above and imply tacit support for the criminals. “For example, credible source has shown that some individuals are hobnobbing with Boko Haram terrorists, while others are deliberately churning falsehood against the security agencies with a view to set the military against the people and the government. “They are also demoralising troops and security agencies through false accusations and fake news,” Musa said. He warned them to desist as the consequences of their intended actions would be calamitous to themselves. “We also noted that foreign interests are also working assiduously to cause disaffection and divide the coalition Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) to give room for the so-called Islamic State for West African Province (ISWAP) and its defeated local franchise, Boko Haram terrorists group to resurrect,” he said. He, however, expressed confidence in the Federal Government’s efforts at sustaining and reinvigorating the MNJTF to continue its good work. Musa also restated that the Nigerian army would not relent in clearing the visages and remnants of Boko Haram terrorists and their sympathisers. (NAN) Foreign interests undermining peace, scuttle Buhari inauguration, says Army Army threatens legal action over Metele attack Boko Haram: CSOs decry campaign of calumny against Army Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin