It appears that the creation of four additional emirates in Kano State by the state government is gradually generating controversies with individuals and groups condemning it in totality and others challenging it before the court of law. The move was started by a group called West African Institute for Legal Aide (WAILA), which hired the services of Mallam Ibrahim Salisu Chambers to present a petition before the Kano State House of Assembly requesting it to facilitate creation of four new emirates of Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi out of the existing Kano emirate. On Monday, May 6, the Speaker of the House, Alhaji Kabiru Alhassan Rurum, tabled the matter before the assembly and directed the Majority Leader of the House, Hon Baffa Babba Danagundi to read the petition on the floor of the House. Danagundi read the petition and then moved a motion calling on the House to adopt the report which it unanimously did. The House, therefore, adjourned till Tuesday, May 7. When the House sat, the Speaker tabled the motion for the first reading and the entire members at the plenary endorsed it, hence it scaled the first reading unopposed. The House, therefore, adjourned till Tuesday, May 8 for the second and third reading of the motion, but it directed the House Standing Committees on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and that of Judiciary to present its report on consolidation of all laws related to Emirate Council to enable the House include the issue of creation of new emirates. At its next sitting the next day, joint committees of the House Standing Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and that of Judiciary presented its report before the House in which it recommended that the House implement all the recommendations contained therein in the report. The major recommendation was to create four new emirates. More troubles for Emir Sanusi Kano lawmakers set to approve 4 new emirates Kano Assembly considers request for 4 new emirates Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin