Some young politicians in Sokoto who participated in 2019 elections have said money politics, god-fatherism, lack of funds, and party’ delegate system were the key factors that kept them from realising their dreams. They bared their hearts to a summit organized by the International Republican Institute (IRI) to review youth participation in politics in Sokoto state. Umar Bawan-Allah related his experience: “I was an aspirant for a seat at the State House of Assembly, but I could not purchase my interest form because each time I approached party’s officials, they claimed that the form is not available at the moment. This denial continued until the deadline elapsed.” For her part, Hunaiza Abubakar who clinched NRM party ticket for a House of Representatives seat stated “nobody wanted to give me a chance. They called me unprintable names, and even queried my guts to get involve in politics that’s mainly dominated by males.” Another, Umar Dan-Khalifa had a different story. “My challenge was because I contested on a smaller political party who did not have wider acceptability from the electorates. That was why I lost in the election.” Guest speaker, Mansur Isah Buhari of the department of Modern European Language and Linguistic, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto noted that, “Youths are really lagging behind in political scene. “ “We, as youth must identify our problems and fight for its solutions because our nonchalant altitude is compounding the society problems. We have to work the talk and not just do the talk for talking sake,” he said. The IRI Sokoto state Coordinator, Aisha Muhammad Ahmed explained that aim of the summit was to review youth participation in the 2019 elections in the state. She said the participants would   develop agenda that would form part of the youth demand for more participation in politics, particularly in Sokoto state. Sokoto’s political families: Bound by blood, polarised by politics Re: Sokoto's demystification of godfathers Why I should be Sokoto’s next governor - Shagari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin