The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate in the February 23 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, have submitted that due to her family links to certain officials of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa is unlikely to be impartial if she remains the presiding judge of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. In a formal complaint filed before the tribunal, Atiku and PDP submitted that Justice Bulkachuwa, who is the president of the Court of Appeal (PCA), is the wife of Adamu Muhammad Bulkachuwa, who emerged as the APC senator-elect in Bauchi North Senatorial District in the recent election. They further claimed that Justice Bulkachuwa is the biological mother of Aliyu Haidar Abubakar, who contested the governorship ticket in Gombe State under the platform of the APC. Citing the inaugural address of the PCA where she stated: “Elections are held in Nigeria every four years into elective positions. No matter how well the election is conducted, there are bound to be complaints,” Atiku and the PDP alleged that she may already have “prejudged the presidential election as ‘well’ conducted and that this petition is one of the complaints that came up no matter how well the election is conducted.” The motion on notice was filed Thursday by the counsel to Atiku and PDP, Levy Uzoukwu (SAN), leading 20 Senior Advocates of Nigeria and 15 other lawyers in compliance with the directive by the five-member tribunal on May 15 directing them to make formal their request for the PCA to recuse herself from the tribunal. INEC, President Buhari and the APC are expected to reply when the case resumes on May 22. Tribunal: PDP, Atiku ask Justice Bulkachuwa to recuse self, as security personnel prevent protesters How Court of Appeal set up 2019 election tribunals PDP protesters pass vote-of-no confidence on panel handling Atiku's petition Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin