The North East Elders/Stakeholders Forum (NESF) and North Central Zone of the National Councillors Forum (NCNCF) have expressed support for the candidature of Sen. Ali Ndume for the office of senate president of the 9th National Assembly. The acting Chairman of NESF, Major Peter Janka (Rtd), and the NCNCF Chairman, Dogara John Bassa, while addressing journalists yesterday in Abuja, endorsed the candidature of Ndume. Mj. Janka said the elders and stakeholders from the North East resident in the FCT believed that the ranking Sen. Ndume was qualified among “the egg heads” in the senate to defend and project the desires of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to provide good governance to the citizenry. “We throw our weight and support behind Sen. Ndume, an amiable, loyal and defender of party principles and ideology. We don’t need to remind anyone that while he held sway as the senate leader, under his watch, all the bills and letters requesting for the senate’s approval were defended stoutly by him (Ndume). “The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and acting Chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, are just few of instances where Ndume put everything he has as a resolute politician to defend President Buhari’s nomination. Though it cost him his position, the world knows that he is a fearless and committed party member,” he said. The NCNCF Chairman, Bassa, said the councillors believed that irrespective of who the party hierarchy felt the cap fitted, Ndume deserved the seat going by popular demand from the grassroots. “He was the initiator of the North East Development Initiative (NEDI) which has been given legal teeth as a commission with the assent of the bill by President Buhari making it a law to have it,” Bassa added. Senate Presidency: Goje’s imminent entry brings new twist Senate: Concerned Borno citizens reaffirm support for Ndume Breaking: Goje to declare for Senate President after budget passage Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin