The Supreme Court has declared that the All Progressives Congress (APC) had no candidates in the 2019 general elections in Zamfara state. The five-member panel of justices, in a unanimous judgment on Friday, held that the party in the state failed to conduct primaries in accordance with the party rules. In the lead judgment by Justice Paul Adamu Galinji, the apex court declared that all votes cast for the APC as “wasted votes” and added that all political parties with the second highest votes in the elections and the required spread, are elected to the various elections. Zamfara state has three senatorial seats, seven federal lawmakers and 24 state lawmakers. These are some of the candidates of the APC affected by the judgement. Governor: Alhaji Mukhtar Shehu Idris Senate: Zamfara West: Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar Zamfara Central: Alhaji Aliyu Ikra Bilbis. Zamfara North: Alhaji Tijjani Yahaya Kaura. House of Representatives Gusau/ Tsafe : Alhaji Sanusi Garba Rikiji. Bakura / Maradun : Alhaji Muttaka Rini. Anka/ Talata Mafara: Alhaji Ahmad Sharu Anka. Gummi / Bukuyyum: Alhaji Umar Jibo Kaura Namoda/ Birnin Magaji: Alhaji Ibrahim Muhammad. Zurmi/  Shinkafi : Alhaji Hussaini Moriki: Maru/ Bungudu: Alhaji Abdulmalik Zubairu State Assembly Bakura: Alhaji Sani Ahmad Sani Yarima Anka: Alhaji Mustapha Gado. Kaura Namoda North: Alhaji Lawali M. Liman. Kaura Namoda South: Engr Abubakar Idris Kurya. Zurmi East: Alhaji  Mannir Gidan Jaja Zurmi West: Alhaji Yusuf Moriki. Shinkafi: Alhaji Bello Mai Wurno Gusau 1 :Alhaji SanusiLiman Dan Alhaj. Bungudu West:  Alhaji Ibrahim Bature Bungudu East: Alhaji Ibrahim Kotorkoshi Tsafe South:  Alhaji Aminu Danjibga Tsafe East : Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar Talata Mafara North: Alhaji Isah Abdulmumini. Talata Mafara South.  Alhaji Aliyu Ango NEWS FLASH: Zamfara Election: Supreme court voids votes for APC Supreme Court sacks Governor-elect, Yari, others as PDP set to take over Zamfara + VIDEO Zamfara: S/Court nullifies APC's votes, declares parties with second highest votes as winners Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin