The Chairman of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido, has said he appointed women into his cabinet because of his absolute confidence and trust in them. Candido said women were fairly represented in his cabinet, which he said would further enhance his target of uniting the area council during his second term in office. Five women were among the nine appointees inaugurated at the council’s secretariat on Tuesday. Candido said they were given the opportunity so that they would be able to exhibit their potentials and contribute their quota to the development of the council. He said, “I have confidence in all the people, particularly the women. So the little moment I have by the grace of God I will work with them. “The reason for this appointments is to accommodate all of us. To make everybody have a sense of belonging.We have the capacity to contribute to what is given to us and that is why some of you may see that 60 per cent of the appointees come from the female angle. “I have respect for the women; they are our mothers, they can manage resources better and they don’t pretend. If you invest your trust and confidence in them, you will get result, unlike a man who sleeps with you in the same room and the next day he does another thing.” He, therefore, urged the appointees to brace up for the challenges ahead, adding that it was time to work for the people of the area council. The council’s Secretary, Rahmat Abisola Abdullahi, who spoke on behalf of the appointees, expressed their readiness to support the chairman and deliver the dividends of democracy to the residents. I don’t regret working with councillors – AMAC boss Over 250 youths empowered with my security votes - Candido Much ado about tenement rate collection Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin