Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted the special adviser on political matters to the chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Salihu Kakam, at Anguwar Sabon Tasha in the area. A family member of the victim, who preferred anonymity, said the incident happened around 12:08 am Sunday. He said the kidnappers scaled the fence of the house where the chairman’s aide was living and forced the door open, adding that the victim was found in his bedroom and was whisked him at gun point. “After they jumped the fence, they went straight to the room where the man’s children were sleeping and woke one of them up and pointed a gun at him and asked him to take them to where their father was sleeping. And he led them to the father’s bedroom,” he said. He said the gun men did not shoot, they operated quietly and disappeared with the victim through the  bush path. Reacting, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, confirmed the incident, saying he was saddened and shocked over the incident. Meanwhile, a member of the kidnapped victim has confided in our reporter that the suspected kidnappers were demanding for N3 million ransom before they would set him free. The family source told our reporter yesterday that the kidnappers had earlier demanded for N10 million but after intensive negotiations they arrived at N3 million. When contacted, the FCT police spokesperson, DSP Anjuguri Manza, confirmed the incident, saying police are investigating the incident. He said he was not aware of any ransom being demanded by the kidnappers but that efforts were being made to rescue the victim. Gunmen abduct 27 year-old man in Abaji Abaji vice chair’s abductors demand N3m Abaji council women development officer attacked Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin