A move to stall the Justice Josephine Coker-led reconstituted Election Petitions Tribunal’s resumption failed yesterday in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Justice Coker had barely addressed stakeholders at the inaugural sitting when the Lead Counsel to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Mamman Osuman (SAN), asked the tribunal not to proceed with the sitting following a petition written by the party to the Court of Appeal rejecting the new panel. Osuman implored the panel to tarry its sitting pending the determination of the petition. Counsel to other parties, however, rejected Osuman’s demand, expressing their support and cooperation with the panel to assume sitting. “If you (tribunal members) have not seen a copy of the petition or received an advice from the Court of Appeal President, I want to urge you to tarry awhile. “This is an inaugural sitting. We have witnessed an inaugural sitting and I pray there would not be another inaugural sitting,” Osuman expressed. Daily Trust reports that the new panel took over from the previous team headed by Justice Chinwe Onyeabo following a reshuffle carried out by the Court of Appeal President, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa. And there had been petitions for and against the reconstituted panel, which APM National Chairman, Yusuf Dantalle, described as “premeditated and unacceptable.” However, Coker while responding to Osuman’s demand to tarry its sitting, said the panel took directives from the Court of Appeal President and “unless and until we receive contrary directive, we intend to proceed with the sitting.” Earlier in her address, Justice Coker warned parties against inducement and intimidation of its members. The tribunal chairman assured lawyers and politicians of the panel’s “impartiality and incorruptibility” in the discharge of its duty. She said, “We, as members of this panel, in observance of our oath of office as judicial officers, assure all of our impartiality, incorruptibility and strict adherence to the rule of law and principle of fair hearing. “To this end, we appeal to counsels and litigants alike who have submitted to the jurisdiction of this tribunal by filing your petitions, to not only sheath your swords with each other pending final determination, but not attempt to reach, harass, intimidate, induce or influence any member of this panel or support staff through any channel whatsoever and to desist from any smear campaign against us.”  Ogun: APM, LP bicker as new tribunal members resume today Ogun tribunal grants Akinlade access to inspect electoral materials Drama as Ogun LP guber candidate disowns counsel at Tribunal Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin