Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said that the Church would continue to play very critical role in the overall growth and development of the country. Obasanjo made this known on Saturday at the 2019 Synod of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta. The former president noted that the Church in Nigeria has continued to provide the spiritual growth of the people as well as the overall physical wellbeing and welfare of Nigerians. Obasanjo who spoke on the topic, “Mobilising Nigeria’s Human and Natural Resources for National Development and Stability ”  said the Church had in the face of daunting challenges continued mould opinions. He said the Chuch also makes critical interventions, and influence policies and general directions of the various tiers of governments in Nigeria. “The main mission of the Church is salvation of the soul but without ignoring the physical, mental and the general social well-being of humankind. “This topic is, to me, very apt, particularly as our dear country Nigeria keeps seeking for ways and means of overcoming the developmental challenges that confront it. “When closely examined, it can be seen that the topic is prescriptive, as against the general norm nowadays which tend to dwell only on the ills that afflict us and consequently end up with only criticisms “But I must hasten to say that criticism particularly objective criticism is good for the growth and human development,” he said. Obasanjo said development was all about the people, for the people and by the people. Obasanjo, Kukah to dissect Nigeria’s economy, religion and politics at Foursquare lecture How Jonathan and Obasanjo fell apart Obasanjo: Why I am supporting Buhari Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin