Islamic cleric and academic, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, in this interview, stressed the need for politicians to respect traditional rulers, and gave a number of reasons, also tackling other issues. Excerpts:  Daily Trust: Many politicians believe that traditional rulers are extremely partisan. Do you think there should be some sort of middle ground of engagement regarding the issue? Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami: Every Nigerian has the power to say his interest when it comes to leadership. However, with regards to our traditional institutions, I had been hearing these allegations and hearsay that some traditional rulers are partisan, but the most prominent among them that I interact with, are not that partisan to the extent which is being peddled. As a brother, when you come to me, and I respect you, when I commend you, I say you are a good man. You have been very helpful to our institution. Then those contesting against such person would say you are supporting him. This is not partisanship. Commending someone does not mean you are supporting that person. Politicians book appointments, visit traditional institutions, and they are all received. Of them all, tell me of one traditional ruler that turned down any politician from seeing them. Traditional rulers have informal authority, compared to the politicians that have a formal one.  But politicians know that traditional rulers, despite having informal authority, command respect among the people, even more that the politicians themselves. And that’s why the ‘middle ground’ you asked about is very important. DT: You’ve mentioned some aspects about their importance, but in what specific ways can traditional institutions help with problems in the society? Pantami: Most of our traditional institutions in the north are the custodians of our religion, and religion is the backbone of our life. Secondly, they are the custodians of our culture and tradition. And we all respect our traditional institutions. However, from 1804 when Sultan Attahiru was killed in Burmi, after leaving Sokoto on his way to Mecca, the power of our traditional institutions has been neglected, in some places even destroyed. We must make sure that we respect them, whether we are religious leaders, or we are executives in our states, or chief security officers, or whatever. It is our collective responsibility to make sure that we give them that informal authority, because today the power of traditional institutions is more of an informal one. With that informal authority, they control their constituency better than those who have formal authority, with zero integrity and credibility. Based on the position they occupy, we don’t look at their age, but actually, we respect them. We consider them as our parents, because religious leaders and traditional leaders are not respected because of age, but because of what they represent. Most of our traditional institutions have access to information more than many security agencies. Why? Because they are easily accessible. But it is difficult for one sometimes to see some security officers. But traditional institutions are easily accessible. Even if you cannot reach them directly, you can go to the house of any emir and meet their subjects. Any message you send, they will convey. It cannot be overemphasized that our politicians must give more respect to the traditional institutions than they do today. And I believe that some of the politicians are upright and always give support. Buy many have failed to do that, based on the information I have. ‘How governors drag traditional rulers into politics’ How Germany, Britain and France  once shared, ruled Borno   - Shehu of Dikwa How will Okorocha fare in face-off with traditional rulers? Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin