A Kano State High Court presided over by Justice Nasiru Saminu has restrained Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje from appointing four new emirs for the newly created emirates in the state. The court also ordered Kano state government to suspend any move for demarcating the Kano emirate pending the determination of the case filed before it by the minority leader of the Kano State House of Assembly. Daily Trust learnt that the Minority Leader and Minority Whip of the House, Hon Rabi’u Saleh Gwarzo and Hon Babangida Yusuf Sulaiman challenged the procedures followed in creating the four emirates. READ: Sanusi is supposed to report to LG chair not me – Ganduje Confirming the development to our reporter, Hon Gwarzo said, “We challenged the creation of the new emirates in court because the procedures followed by the House was illegal. The days and times and entire processes did not conform with ethics of the House, hence our decision to challenge it in court. “We have secured a court order in that respect and it will soon be made public. We won’t allow this matter to die just like that. Due process must be followed in all undertakings of the House. “We have rules and regulations governing the conduct of any activity by the House and we will not allow anybody to deviate from the rules of the House.” Meanwhile Kano State government has appointed Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero as emir of Bichi emirate, one of the newly created emirate. The government also confirmed the upgrading of  District Heads of Karaye, Rano and Gaya to first class emirs for their respective emirates. Confirming the incident, the State’s Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, said the new emirs would receive their letters of appointment on Saturday at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium. Until his appointment as emir, Bayero was the Wamban Kano, a position given to him by the present emir of Kano, Muhammed Sanusi II after promoting the former Wambai, Alhaji Abbas Sanusi to the rank of Galadima following the death of late Galadiman Kano Tijjani Hashim. Other emirs of Karaye, Gaya and Rano, who were upgraded To the status of emirs from district heads are Sarkin Karaye Alhaji Tafida Abubakar ll, Sarkin Gaya Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir Gaya and Dr Ibrahim Abubakar ll. Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano Kano Assembly considers request for 4 new emirates Sanusi is supposed to report to LG chair not me - Ganduje Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin