Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu has said rampant cheating on public examinations by youths has deepened the rot in the school system. He directed examination bodies to take strong measures to prevent cheating in exams particularly, during registration and any other form of academic misconduct. Represented by the Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, Professor Abubakar Rasheed, the minister made the statement during the commissioning ceremony of the remodeled headquarters complex of the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB), Bwari, Abuja. He said the recent ‘painstaking’ effort of the board at scrutinizing the process of registration of UTME candidates and its relationship with intent, plans and execution of examination malpractice was not a misplaced one adding that the outcome of the exercise “has revealed that there is a lot of rot in the education system. Sadly, the youths that should be the hope of the future of the country are deeply involved in the cankerworm. “I hereby direct that all public examination bodies ensure the clean up and sanitation of their registration process just like Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has done.” Chairman, JAMB Governing Board, Dr Emmanuel Ndukwe, said the board took some time to closely examine the results of the recent UTME to fish out cheats and reduce malpractices to the barest minimum. He said the results of all candidates in the exam corresponded with their classroom performance, in the end. He said matriculants that obtained the required marks and meet admission criteria, would be offered admission without human intervention. He said the board had commenced admission process into higher institutions. The buildings commissioned were the remodeled headquarters complex, staff canteen and the general services department. The Registrar, Professor Is-haq Oloyede, said the sum of N46 million was spent on the project. 600 Students Expelled for Cheating on School Exams in India WAEC to prosecute centres, candidates involved in exam malpractice FG urges stakeholders to widen sensitisation on NECO registration Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin