The FCT minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, has sworn- in the six area council chairmen and their deputies, warning them against corrupt practices. He said the area council as the third tier of government was very important because it was nearest to the people at the grassroots level. He said there was the need for the council chairmen to bear in mind that apart from being accountable to God almighty, they were also accountable to the people that elected them into office. “So I advise you to work for your people and shun corruption, and you should use public funds for the purpose they are meant for because three years will just come and pass very quickly and then, you will be held accountable,” he said. He also urged the council chairmen to ensure that the welfare of their staff was given priority, saying whatever decision or action they took should be one that should improve and add meaning to the lives of their people. “You should also resist the temptation to discard the projects initiated by your predecessors simply because you want to do your own,” he said. He noted that every project which had already commenced, there was the need to ensure it was completed so that people would benefit from it. Chairman of AMAC, Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu Candido, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, commended the minister for giving them a free hand to operate throughout their first tenure in office. “In the FCT here, a single kobo has never been deducted from our monthly allocations and there is no doubt that some people will surely miss the minister,” he said. Among those sworn- in were Abaji council chairman, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya and his Gwagwalada counterpart, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha. Both of them won re-election for second terms in office in the March 2019 area councils’ poll on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Those who were newly elected were Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo and John Gabaya who defeated the incumbent chairmen of Kuje and Bwari respectively to win the council polls on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  Mr Danladi Bomboyi Chiya is taking over from Kwali where the incumbent finished his tenure won on APC’s ticket.  FCT rural dwellers yet to feel impact of APC govt – Tanko Abari page 32 Minister halts FCT tenement rates collection Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin