Following the creation of four new emirates in Kano state, various community-based associations in Wudil local government area of Kano state have revealed said their loyalty is with Kano state emirate and not Gaya emirate as listed in the newly passed emirates law. Addressing newsmen in Wudil shortly after a joint stakeholders meeting of various community associations from Wudil local government held under the chairmanship of Malam Yawale Muhammad Idris, the secretary Wudil joint stakeholders, Dr. Baba Sani Wudil, revealed that the creation of the four new emirates was done without the consent of the good people of Wudil and the move has gone contrary to the traditional provision of the long preserved history of the area. “We didn’t solicit for it in the first place and when the government decided to create the new emirates, the people of Wudil were not consulted. Therefore, we are sure that the new law if allowed to persist will no doubt erase our long preserved historical background and the people of Wudil will not allow that to happen. “We believe the traditional institution has a long history and that is what gives us our identity. We are the Jobawa and we want Governor Ganduje to know that. “This is also to state here that, all stakeholders in Wudil pledges their loyalty to Kano and not Gaya emirate,” he said. He further stated that the people of Wudil will present their stand before all relevant authorities for consideration. According to him, the stakeholder is willing to explore all avenues provided by the Nigerian law to see that Wudil remains in Kano and not Gaya as the new law on the creation of the emirates stipulated. Emir Sanusi to preside over 10 LGAs as Kano creates four new emirates Ganduje approves 4 new emirates in Kano More troubles for Emir Sanusi Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin