The Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong, has been elected chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF). He succeeds Dr. Kashim Shettima of Borno State. Lalong was unanimously elected by the other governors from the northern states at a meeting in Kaduna. The outgoing chairman of the forum, Shettima, said Lalong was chosen to take up the leadership of the forum due to his wealth of experience. The forum observed that the security challenges in the country were persisting despite concerted efforts by the federal and state governments. It set up a committee under the chairmanship of the Kastina State governor, Alhaji Bello Masari, to develop a regional plan of action to tackle the security challenges. The Borno State governor said the committee would seek audience with President Muhammadu Buhari and make representations to him on the true nature of the security challenges in the North. He said the committee would also make suggestions based on a thorough and insightful analysis and assessment of the situation. The forum also set up a committee on the New Nigeria Development Company (NNDC) to study the current structure as well as meet with agents of the company on how best to revive the company. The forum appointed a former economic adviser, Dr. Tanimu Yakubu, as the new chairman of the board of the company, saying it would allow the current management to remain until the appointment of a substantive management. The forum also directed New Capital Properties, a subsidiary of the NNDC, to continue with the disposal of NNDC properties with a view to settling other outstanding liabilities of the company and transforming it into a new outfit. Simon Lalong emerges as Chairman of Northern Governors Forum Don’t create confusion in Nigeria, Borno Speaker warns Okorocha: Govs haven’t done enough Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin