The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Muhammad Musa Bello, has admonished Area Council Chairmen to provide good governance to their respective councils. Bello made the call when Senator Philip Aduda, led a delegation of the six area council chairmen and some stakeholders on a courtesy visit to the minister in his office. He said there was need for the council chairmen to know the level of responsibility bestowed on them as elected representatives  of the people, which he said was enormous. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “Besides, in terms of monthly allocations, it is only in the FCT that nobody touches your resources. Allocations are given as at when due as approved by law. So no area council chairman should complain of being hindered from doing his job,” he said. He said that the administration would place emphasis on development in the areas of health, education, security and infrastructure. He reminded the council chairmen that education, primary health care and basic sanitation were within the purview of the area councils, adding that these were “low hanging fruits” that could be properly tackled with more of good governance than politicking. He further said that the area council chairmen could achieve their mandate with cooperation and synergy, even as he reminded them that the laws setting up the various boards in the FCT had the area council chairmen as members. “Take the laws establishing the Abuja Environmental Protection Board, for instance, the laws setting it up has every council chairman as a member” hr said. The minister fumed over appointment of too many aides by some area council chairmen, saying, “like an area council where somebody appointed 42 aides, how are you going to fund it, how have you been paying your salaries? He added “ have you been paying all your pensions, have you paid your people their leave allowances?” He therefore urged them to make the satellite towns, centres of excellence as he expressed dismay at the level of untidiness at the satellite towns. Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation, Senator Phillip Aduda, representing the FCT, commended the minister on his achievements during his first tenure in office and pledged the cooperation and support of the elected officials of the FCT. FCT council chairmen seek bailout to pay salaries page 41 Pay October salaries, FCT Minister directs council chairmen