Paul Murry is the general manager of Bristol Palace, a five-star hotel in Kano. He has worked in various hotels around the world. In this interview, he spoke on how he got the job after two 15-minute conversations, and how he turned it around to the point where it is now – a nominee with other top players in the Best Hotel category of the 2019 Nigeria Tourism Awards. Daily Trust: You have worked around Africa quite a bit. Tell us about Bristol Palace Hotel? Paul Murry: The chairman of this company called me and we had a 15-minute conversation. A month later, I was here and we had another 15-minute conversation. The chairman, Senator Ibrahim Ida, is a wonderful man. I met his son, Mr. Kabir Ida and we clicked straightaway. It is a very ambitious project – bringing a five-star hotel into Kano. They were very clear and said, “We need a man of your previous experience to make this happen and put it right.’’ So I started from scratch. The building was perfect, but I started from the scratch concerning the management. And the members of staff did not have enough training. We changed some of them and moved on with the goals and vision of the chairman and the chief executive officer; and indeed, myself. The vision was the same – where we wanted the hotel to be. We have been open for two and a half years. Three months ago, we won the best 10 five-star hotels in Nigeria awards. That put us in the seventh place. We were all very proud of that.  Business has been very good this year. When I first came, we employed 126 members of staff. I now have 211, and 200 of them are from Kano. Some of my managers have worked with me before. We are making something very special here, which is unique. My staff and I are going in the same direction, and we are achieving not less than 80 per cent of our business every day, from about 20 per cent when I first came. We are very busy with all the big corporate organisations, government, all the high profile people, including senators, emirs, governors, ambassadors, big business people. We have a wonderful ambience and serenity in this hotel. After a three-month adjudication, we have now been nominated for the best hotel award for the Nigeria Tourism Award on November 22. We are one of the seven nominees for the best hotel award. We have achieved the impossible. What drew you to tourism and hospitality? My father had four hotels. I worked in his kitchen. Then I would play and work around with the chefs. I was having fun. That considered, when I was going through my schooling, he said, ‘Son, don’t ever get involved in the hotel business. There are a lot of other businesses you can get into, just not the hotel business. This is because your social life will be finished, you will work all hours.’ It looks like you didn’t take his advice. It is one piece of advice I didn’t seem to take. I got dragged into the business and I fell in love with it. I think what is exciting about this business is that there are several things. One, no two days are ever the same. Two, you have the opportunity, especially now we are talking about Africa. I get great passion from assisting and developing people. I have 211 people here, who also have their families. So, it is more like we are helping 2,100 people. And there are all the suppliers I am helping because I am a busy hotel. That is a wonderful way to go in life, isn’t it? To educate people and work ethics. I do not run this place like a five-star Nigerian hotel; no disrespect. I run it like a five-star international hotel. That is quite a bit of a difference. When a staff has been with me for a year, they can work anywhere else in the world and they would get a job, with Bristol Palace Hotel on their curriculum vitae. That is a wonderful way to spend one’s life – helping other people. From the customer side of it, I meet very high influential people. And it is always nice to be recognised and doing well in a hotel such as Bristol Palace. This is because we have these people come here just because they have heard so much about the hotel. Meeting them and having lunch with some of them is very nice and rewarding. But all the time, what I am most proud of are members of my staff. I am also proud of the owner’s hard work. They worked hard to get this place to where it is today. We are a five-star hotel, but we offer things for local people. We are not a five- star hotel that intimidates people. We have nice cold drinks and suya. And people come here on Saturdays and Sundays to relax by the pool. It is wonderful to be able to be a part of the society and families of Kano. They really would appreciate it, be very proud of it and we are very happy that we are where we are now. You mentioned staff training. How is this different in countries you have worked in, especially in Africa? In most countries, when you open a big hotel that requires 200 to 300 staff, you don’t have qualified people to apply for the jobs. Unfortunately, in Nigeria, you have only two universities that offer hospitality degrees. Some offer diplomas, but not degrees. The number of people out there, who have the opportunity to learn before they start in a hotel, is very low. So we do our training. We have an employee handbook that tells them the basics, with regards to how the hotel works, how they must dress, how they must behave, and what their entitlements are.  In every department of my manager, we give trainings twice a week, on the basics, how to serve customers, set a table, buffet, drinks, how to serve desserts and food, how one communicates, how one talks to the guests. These are basic trainings and principles we don’t need tough lessons to learn. Once these basic trainings are done, they move on to the more intricate part of the job. Then, they are given certificates from the hotel, showing that they have gone through these trainings and are qualified in housekeeping, front office, maintenance and security, food and beverage, kitchens and even the gardeners. It is so far, so good because we have our scores measured by travel sites and the reviews on the internet. That keeps us on our toes. Some old school things in the hospitality industry can never go; things like the way you dress, the way you talk to the customer, meeting and greeting. Talking to the customer outside is vital. When I say outside, I mean at the reception. The meeting and greeting, talking in the dining room when they are having dinner is important. Very few general managers have the time to do this, but they have to make it happen, in my opinion. There is this old school style of meeting and greeting. I am not going to tell you all my secrets. Kampala of the Seven Hills An evening walk in Geneva, Cameroon’s other capital Sun City: Splendour, magnificence in heart of semi-desert