The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has condemned the seal up of offices and show rooms of leading automobile dealers in Lagos and Abuja by operatives of the Nigerian Customs Service three weeks ago; saying, regulatory and enforcement powers should be exercised with due propriety and courtesy. The Director General of the Chamber, Musa Yusuf in a statement said some of the dealers are leaders in the industry, representing reputable global brands in the country; adding that they are also members of the organized private sector representing a strong segment of the auto industry on account of their contribution to tax and customs revenue. According to him, there is nothing wrong with an audit exercise to validate compliance with extant rules and policy of government but he faulted what he described as the ominous and intimidating manner the exercise was carried out. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “The main objective of the Nigeria Customs action was to undertake an investigative audit regarding import duty payments by these firms. Some of these outlets have been unsealed. The premises of the companies were sealed for about three weeks, paralyzing their entire operations. We believe that the audit exercise could still be carried out without the sealing up of the business premises of the companies for that length of time,” “The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) is a strong advocate of good corporate governance and compliance with statutory requirements by businesses. There is nothing wrong with an audit exercise to validate compliance with extant rules and policy of government. What is not right is the ominous and intimidating manner the exercise was carried out,” he said. He further stressed that it is imperative for regulatory and enforcement institutions to extend due courtesy to investors in the economy in their quest to validate compliance or otherwise of statutory requirements; noting that investors should not be treated as culpable when infractions have not been proven against them. “Verification processes should be done with minimal disruptions to the operations of companies. Sudden sealing up of companies for about three weeks has profound consequences for businesses including: reputational cost to the company with implications for the goodwill of the company; disruption of business transactions of the company; loss of revenue as result of the disruptions and risk to international and domestic business relations resulting from perception problems created by the sealing up of business premises, especially for dealers of leading global automobile brands among others. He therefore appealed to regulatory and enforcement agencies to demonstrate greater courtesy in their interactions with investors in the economy; saying, investors are critical stakeholders in the economy creating jobs, generating revenue, and stabilizing the social environment through the engagement of citizens. This he said is in line with the current aspiration of government to create an investment friendly environment and the ease of doing business agenda of government.  “Hostile regulatory actions are not in consonance with the quest for job creation and poverty reduction. Disputations around valuation and classification of consignments have become a recurring issue of concern to the private sector. It is a matter that has assumed a critical dimension creating disruptions and uncertainties in the international trade process,” he said. The LCCI called on the Presidency in conjunction with the ease of doing business office to come up with a framework for valuation and classification which is fair, equitable, transparent and consistent. It also stressed the need for an independent dispute resolution framework to speedily take decisions on disputes arising from valuation and classification of consignments. LCCI asks Police, others to remove check-points LCCI seeks FG’s intervention on multiple customs, police units at ports Inconsistency bane of Nigeria’s auto industry