A vessel, MV Neso11, was arraigned yesterday along with 25 men and a woman before the Federal High Court, Lagos, for alleged unlawful dealing in petroleum products. The defendants are Francis Onyeoma, Adebayo M. Charles, Melvin A. Jack, Omogoye Wasiu Bolaji, Umoren Harrison Daniel, Oloyede Y. Ademola, Archibong Anietie James, Richard Essien David, Oke Asaiki, Mike Simeon, Godswill Emmanuel Umoh, Edu Fidelis and Miebaka Iyaka. Others are Kingsley Terry, Augustine Abarowei Udom, Victor Jerome, Victor Uchendu, Firstman Job, Nelson Sokorobo Solomon, Emomotimi F. Watchman, Iwuoha Okechukwu Victor, Ogerugbe Patrick (aka Odafe), Emmanuel Eze, Victor Uchendu and Paul Obi. The only woman among them is Grace Ruyie Inyang. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The defendants were arraigned before Justice Abdulla Muhammed Liman on a two-count charge. Counsel to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Kamil Bashir, told the court that the defendants, who were arrested within the Nigerian maritime domain and the Gulf of Guinea, allegedly conspired to unlawfully deal in petroleum products. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. Following their not-guilty plea, the prosecutor asked the court for a trial date and also urged the court to remand them in prison custody till the determination of the charge against them. Lead counsel to the defendants, Adetunji Adegboyega, informed the court of a motion seeking to admit the defendants to bail. Adegboyega informed the court that the defendants had been in detention for over one year, and that the interest of justice would be better served by admitting the defendants to bail on the most liberal terms. Justice Liman conceded to the counsel’s request and admitted each of the defendants to bail in the sum of N2 million, with one surety each. The judge also granted the vessel an insurance bond of N50 million and adjourned the matter till December 9, 11 and 13, 2019. Lagos arraigns 28 adults, 12 minors over homosexual acts Teenager, 1 other arraigned over cultism, possession of firearms Illegal mining: FG withdraws suit against Dan-China, 16 Chinese nationals