The People’s Republic of China, on Tuesday, celebrated 70 years since its founding with a huge display of most advanced China-made weaponry, 40% of them making their debut. President Xi Jinping, who was flanked by his predecessors Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao, along with other retired and present party elders, presided over the parade of tanks, missiles and troops. For Xi, it was his fifth time to review a huge military parade. The most recent was in April when the Chinese navy marked its 70th anniversary with a naval parade in Qingdao, Shandong province. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY All roads leading to Tian’anmen Square, the parade ground were blocked. The capital, Beijing, had been under tight security, meaning that the parade was limited to a hand-picked, carefully vetted crowd. Journalists were at the square as early as 6 am. The parade involved 15,000 troops from 59 units, 47 on the ground and a dozen airborne squadrons. 580 pieces of military equipment were rolled through the square while 160 aircraft flew overhead. The new weapons on show included the mobile, solid-fuel DF-41 ICBM, which is a core element of the country’s nuclear deterrent because it can reach any location on the US mainland from China. Its range of 15,000km (9,300 miles) improves on the 12,000km (7,500 miles) of its predecessor, the DF-31AG, and the new missile is also fitted with 10, rather than three, multiple re-entry vehicles that allow it to hit different targets independently. The DF-41 can be launched from trucks or trains and is much more mobile than the silo-based DF-5B, which also featured in Tuesday’s parade in Beijing. The parade also showcased the submarine-launched JL-2 ballistic missile, which has a range of 7,400km (4,600 miles) and multiple payload vehicles to aim at different targets independently. The military show also featured the first appearance of the hypersonic DF-17, which has an advanced glide system that allows it to travel well above the speed of sound and should ensure it can evade any existing missile defence system. Despite the huge display of scary-looking weaponry, China said it has no intention or need to flex its muscles but to demonstrate “peace-loving and responsible China”. “The stronger we are, the more positive energy we can bring to world peace,” Wu Qian, a spokesperson for China’s Ministry of National Defense, had said days ahead of the military parade. China has adopted a “no first use” policy towards nuclear missiles and has remained the only nuclear-weapon state to maintain an unconditional no-first-use (NFU) pledge. NFU pledge, first publicly made by China in 1964, refers to any authoritative statement by a nuclear weapon state to never be the first to use these weapons in a conflict, reserving them strictly to retaliate in the aftermath of a nuclear attack against its territory or military personnel. The Defense Ministry in July released a new white paper on China’s national defence policies, in which it reiterated the country’s longstanding nuclear no first use policy and its commitment to peaceful development. “Though a country may become strong, bellicosity will lead to its ruin. The Chinese nation has always loved peace. Since the beginning of modern times, the Chinese people have suffered from aggression and wars, and have learned the value of peace and the pressing need for development. Therefore, China will never inflict such sufferings in any other country. “Since its founding 70 years ago, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) has never started any war or conflict. Since the introduction of the reform and opening-up, China has been committed to promoting world peace and has voluntarily downsized the PLA by over 4 million troops. China has grown from a poor and weak country to be the world’s second-largest economy neither by receiving handouts from others nor by engaging in military expansion or colonial plunder. “Instead, it has developed through its people’s hard work and its efforts to maintain peace. China has made every effort to create favourable conditions for its development by maintaining world peace and has equally endeavoured to promote world peace through its development. China sincerely hopes that all countries will choose the path of peaceful development and jointly prevent conflicts and wars,” the white paper said. This message was re-echoed by President Xi when he told the huge crowd at the Tian’anmen square that China would stay on the path of peaceful development and pursue a mutually beneficial strategy of opening up. Dressed in a Mao suit, Xi said, “We will continue to work with people from all countries to push for jointly building a community with a shared future for humanity.” He stressed that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) would serve its purpose in safeguarding the sovereignty, security and development interests of the country, and firmly uphold world peace.” ‘No force can shake China’ President Xi praised the achievements of the Chinese people over the past seven decades, which he said amaze the world. “No force can shake the status of our great motherland, and no force can stop the Chinese people and the Chinese nation from marching forward.” Amid escalating violence in Hong Kong, Xi vowed that the central government would uphold the principle of “peaceful reunification” and “one country, two systems”. He said the central government would protect the lasting prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macau, and “promote peaceful development of cross-Strait relations, unite all Chinese sons and daughters, and continue to strive for the motherland’s complete reunification.” After his about eight-minute speech, Xi inspected row upon row of military hardware and immaculately presented troops. After the military parade, a 100,000-strong citizen-performers and 70 floats featuring huge portraits of Xi and predecessors filed past to wrap up the morning celebration. China military parade marks WW2 victory over Japan China to hold largest-ever military parade on Oct. 1 The gains of emergent forum on China-Africa cooperation