Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and some APC governors stormed Kogi State at the weekend, to flag off the reelection campaign of Governor Yahaya Bello of the state. The flag off, which held at the ancient town of Idah, attracted a mammoth crowd of supporters, APC stalwarts and enthusiasts from within and outside the state. Osinbajo, while presenting the APC flag to Yahaya Bello and his running mate, Edward Onoja, expressed optimism that the party and its candidate would emerge victorious in the election. Osinbajo appealed to the electorate to come out en masse and vote for Bello. Oshiomhole in his remarks, described Bello as a “tested and trusted politician”, who has performed excellently during his first tenure. He said the party’s candidate has passion for the sustainable development of the state, adding that he would not disappoint the people of the state. “If you know where this state was during the reign of the PDP and now, you will understand there is a need to vote for Bello for continuity. “Bello has the capacity to translate his vision into reality and that is why I am appealing to you to vote for him during the election and he will not disappoint you,” Oshiomhole said. Bello in his address urged his supporters to work hard to ensure victory for the party, saying that the party will go on a “door-to-door and village-to-village campaign” so as to make sure that the APC is reelected. Also speaking, Minister of State for FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, described Bello as a reliable and committed person, who would bring more development to the state. Governors Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti, Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak of Kwara and Mai Mala Buni of Yobe were at the rally. Also at the flag off were Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello; a former governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar, serving senators, House of Representatives members and the APC National Women leader, Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa and members of the APC National Working Committee, among others. Osinbajo, Oshiomhole, governors storm Kogi as APC flags off governorship campaign Groups differ over Bello in Kogi Kogi guber: Why Bello picked Onoja as running mate