APC 2019 gubernatorial candidate in Sokoto State, Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu, has alleged that APC members working in the state civil service were being maltreated through punitive postings, transfers and denial of salaries. “This is in spite of the myriad of actions unjustly taken against some civil servants believed to be loyal to the APC, like punitive postings and transfers, as well as denial of salaries,” he claimed. He was addressing a crowd of APC supporters who gathered weekend to welcome the party leader in Sokoto, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, at his Gawon Nama residence in the state on his return from Abuja. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY On the recent judgment of the 2019 governorship election petition tribunal on the party’s petition, he reiterated their rejection of the verdict. He however stated that “there is no cause for alarm as regards the judgment. This is a stolen mandate which will Insha Allahu (by God’s grace) be retrieved.” Aliyu, who contested against Governor Aminu Tambuwal, applauded party members for keeping faith with the party. In his remarks, Senator Wamakko (APC, Sokoto North) said, “the stolen gubernatorial mandate of the APC in the state will be retrieved through legal means.” However, the PDP in the state had denied that the state government was persecuting APC supporters in the civil service. State Chairman of the PDP, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma said: “The PDP has learnt that APC in Sokoto State has come up with another pack of lies, which is their posture since politics began in 2019, claiming victimisation of civil servants by the government of Sokoto State on partisan grounds. “Our party as well as all the entire people in Sokoto State are aware that these allegations by the APC are actually right out their post-election blueprint, if they had won.It is common knowledge that the APC planned a massive sack of civil servants, who did not support their party and targeted many of them for physical assault and other forms of humiliation.” Ganduje, Lalong, Tambuwal win at tribunal JUST IN: Tambuwal extends olive branch to Sokoto APC, Aliyu Sokoto PDP wants Tambuwal to disclose financial position