The Ministry of Trade and Investment says it is targeting an annual revenue of N5 billion from its Weights and Measures Department. Speaking during the induction of 152 inspectors to facilitate weights and measurement standards in the Nigerian trading space held in Abuja yesterday, the director in charge of the department, Engineer Muhammed Sidi, said in 2018, the department generated N500 million. Engineer Sidi said the revenue value can be increased if the department is well equipped and manned to carry out its enforcement duty. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said the weights and measures department has been ensuring transparency in the area of customer protection in transactions involving measurements. “As a custodian of measuring and weighing equipment used for trade in Nigeria, we ensure that standards are maintained in line with the International Bureau of Legal Metrology (IBLM). “Also, we have 10 newly procured operational vehicles to be used by the newly trained inspectors and legal metrology officers of weights and measure,” he said. He said the operations of the officials would be in the area of verifying grains of indigenous measures, monitoring of crude oil export at terminals, inspection and testing of pre-packed goods among others. The Trade minister, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, during the induction charged the inspectors to be professional in their dealings and ensure standards of trade facilities are maintained. “Today the ministry is inducting 152 weights and measurement inspectors in line with the provisions of Section 9 of the Weights and Measurement Act which states that no one shall attend to weighing or measuring by all means, except he holds a certificate from the Superintendent that he has sufficient knowledge and skill for the proper performance of duty. “Therefore to enhance standards, your task is to ensure compliance and adherence to metrological and measurement standards as you are now certified inspectors and legal metrology officers of weights and measures,” he added.