Hoodlums killed a woman and her daughter in Gobirawa Yan Yashi quarters, a slum in Fagge Local Government Area of Kano metropolis, Daily Trust gathered. Police in the state said the incident occurred between 8 and 9pm on Sunday, and that six suspects have already been arrested in connection with the crime. The spokesman of the police command, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, who confirmed the arrest, said the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu, led the team of operatives of the Operation Puff-Adder in the command to arrest the suspects. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said dangerous weapons presumed to have been used to carry out the attack have been recovered from the suspects. Daily Trust learnt that the husband of the slain woman, Malam Sha’ibu Abdulmumin was away for a wedding reception when the incident happened. Speaking to newsmen, Malam Adulmumin said, “everyone was fine when I left home in the afternoon and around 3pm we had a telephone conversation where she told me she couldn’t cook because of the fever she was battling. “When I came back around 10pm, I knocked on the gate but there was no response. At first I thought she was angry with me because I came home late. But after a while of knocking on the gate without response I broke in and found her lying in a pool of her blood. Our little child was later found dead in the well within the compound”. Police said investigation has commenced and that upon completion the suspects would be charged to court. In a related development, police have confirmed the death of a 60-year-old man identified as Sabo Abdullahi from grievous injuries he sustained in a late night attack by suspected armed robbers in Ajingi Local Government Area. Police Public Relations Officer of the command told Daily Trust that a five-man-gang stormed the victim’s residence and asked for his son. It was gathered that in the process an argument ensued and the man was stabbed. The police said the man was rushed to the hospital where he died while receiving treatment. He said the suspected armed robbers later collected N600, 000 from the son of the victim who they trailed from a market in Wudil. Kiyawa said efforts are on to arrest the suspects and bring them to book. Hoodlums kill housewife, daughter in Kano slum Police arrest two men over raping 7 year old Girl Woman in police net for allegedly burning husband’s private part