* rewards top sellers with awards of excellence Nigeria’s leading e-commerce firm, Jumia Nigeria, has called on all sellers on its platform to prioritize offering the best deals and quality products during its upcoming 4-week Black Friday campaign, starting from November 8. The company gave the charge in Lagos on Saturday while restating its commitment to selling only genuine and quality products on the platform. It said it also aimed at giving consumers an unrivalled shopping experience as the year nears its end. Omolola Oladunjoye, the company’s Chief Operating Officer, had while addressing the sellers during the company’s Annual Sellers’ Conference held in Lagos recently, urged the sellers to align with the company’s quality control process by uploading correct images that correspond to the packages that are eventually delivered to consumers. She emphasized that selling of good, quality and genuine products on the platform is consequently tied to the sellers’ revenue. “If you listed a sub-par products on the Jumia platform and a consumer discovered it after a purchase, the product will be returned to the seller and the consumer will be refunded 100%. “What this means for you as a seller is zero revenue. But as a business, that’s not the kind of experience we want to give our consumers. The satisfaction consumers derive from buying genuine products has good implications on your revenue too,” she said. Daily Trust reports that Jumia also offered a free masterclass to the sellers on how they can make their products attractively competitive for consumers, especially during the Black Friday campaign billed to hold from November 8 till November 29, 2019. “You need to start thinking of the deals that will attract and appeal to our consumers. We have shared with you data on some of the fast moving products on the platform. “One strategy to drive sales during Black Friday is to make as many deals as possible available and ensure your prices become relatively cheaper than competition,” Salma Bencherif, the Chief Marketing Officer at Jumia Nigeria noted. Similarly, seven sellers were also rewarded with award plaques across several categories such as: Top Sales Award of Excellence; Jumia Commercial Sales Award; Jumia Top Rated Seller Award; Jumia Lifetime Seller Achievement Award; Quality Award of Excellence; Referral Winner; and Assortment Challenge Winner. It will be recalled that the Annual Sellers’ Conference holds a few weeks before the company’s annual Black Friday campaigns. Black Friday and the Nigerian entrepreneurs SMEs laud Jumia for business growth SMEs key to unlocking Nigeria’s wealth – Jumia CCO