The Lagos State police command says it has commenced raids of criminal spots in the Lagos metropolis with a view to ensuring peaceful celebration of the Christmas and New Year season. The raids, according to the police, were already paying off with the arrest of 11 suspected in-traffic robbery suspects. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the new operational directive, said the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has ordered all Area Commanders OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY and their Divisional Police Officers to ensure adequate security in their areas during and after the Christmas/New Year celebration. Elkana said that on Monday, at about 1.30pm, a case of armed robbery was reported at the Igando division by one Atolagbe Oyindamola of No. 14, Alaka Street, Abule Oja, Yaba, against some suspects identified as;Ahmed Durojaiye, 23; Waheed Oseni, 24; Rilwan Moshood, 27; and Taiwo Idowu, 32. He added that the suspects were known to be “notorious armed robbers who specialise in snatching phones, money and other valuables from members of the public in gridlock.” The police spokesman said that based on the information, detectives swung into action and arrested the four suspects. “One locally made pistol was recovered from them when they were searched. They also confessed to be members of the Eiye confraternity. A follow-up investigation by the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (SCID) led to the arrest of additional seven suspects. “The seven suspects are Monsuru Mukaila, 20; Ahmed Oyebode, 29; Seyi Ogundele, 36; Akintayo Ogunmola, 30; Segun Olatunji, 28; Olaniyi Ayobami, 20; and Oladimeji Mustapha, 27. They all confessed to be responsible for series of robberies at gridlock points and bus stops around the Yabatech, Yaba, Ejigbo, Igando-Ikotun, Ipaja and Isolo areas of the state. “Other items recovered from the suspects include; one tricycle, five motorcycles, two cutlasses and two phones. “Investigation revealed that Oyebode, who is a cultist and motorcycle operator, gives his bike out for robbery operations and receives stolen phones and cash realised from the operations as reward. “Ogundele and Ogunmola are well-known leaders of the Eiye cult group in Ejigbo. The suspects will soon be charged to court,” Elkana added. Police in Lagos arrest 78 suspected cultists, robbers Police nab wanted cult leader Police arrest 32 suspected cultists, recover arms in Lagos Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.