The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) will soon begin the publication of details of its petroleum products supplies in line with the Mallam Mele Kyari-led management’s drive to conduct the business in transparent manner. NNPC Acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Samson Makoji, said the corporation’s Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this Tuesday while receiving a delegation of the Media Initiative for Transparency in Extractive Industries (MITEI) at the NNPC Towers in Abuja. Addressing the MITEI delegation led by its National Coordinator, Mr. Bassey Udo, the GMD stated that beyond publishing the corporation’s Monthly Financial and Operations Reports, arrangements were afoot to make public all petroleum products supply transactions in the country to further deepen the culture of transparency in the system. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “We will continue to be transparent to our stakeholders, we will do more than you can ever imagine in terms of transparency. We will not just publish our financial records, but very soon, we will publish more things that Nigerians need to know, particularly details of petroleum products supply and distribution which is an area most people don’t understand”, Mallam Kyari assured. He said the corporation stood to gain more in terms of reputation and goodwill from being transparent, noting that trust in business requires corresponding responsibility of accountability to all stakeholders. “You lose nothing by being accountable and transparent, and the combination of the two will enable you to have a good relationship with your stakeholders and ultimately lead you to excellent performance”, he said. Kyari explained that his relationship with MITEI was based on the principle of “common good” since the objective of the group aligns with the core values of the corporation. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr. Bassey Udo, commended the Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE) initiative of the GMD as a visionary move to reposition the oil and gas sector. He expressed delight that the NNPC boss, within the short period of his appointment, has started walking the talk by taking bold decisions towards realising his promises to the nation and citizens. Udo listed some of the actions of the current NNPC leadership that endeared the corporation to the group to include: Publishing of the DSDP contract winners, refineries rehabilitation efforts, signing of Key Performance Indicators by top management, and the Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE) initiative. NNPC to begin publishing details of petroleum products supplies NNPC to publish audited accounts soon – Kyari NNPC to publish first audited accounts in almost a decade Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.