A man, Akeem Omole, was yesterday arraigned before the Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Ikeja, Lagos, for  allegedly assaulting a 16-year-old girl. Omole, of 35, Olayele Street, Oko Oba, Agege, Lagos, was alleged to have committed the offence of sexual assault on October 27, 2016. The girl’s younger brother, Samuel, told the court, “On October 27, 2016, my daddy had gone to work and my mother went to the market, so it was me and our eldest sister, Christiana, who were at home. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Christiana wanted to go out to deliver clothes to one of her clients as she is a fashion designer. “When Christiana wanted to give us feeding money, we looked around for my immediate elder sister (the victim, whose name was withheld) but we couldn’t find her. Our eldest sister left and told me to look for the other sister. My friend Benjamin and I were playing outside when we saw her coming out from the corridor area after some minutes. “I asked her where she was coming from and she held my hand and took me to the door to Omole’s room. She was making some demonstrations, which I interpreted to mean sexual assault against her by Omole. Then, I saw Omole coming out of his room. He went to the backyard and sat on a bench laughing at me and my sister. “When my mother came back from the market, I narrated everything to her. Immediately, she called my dad. When my dad came back from work at 6pm, my mother narrated what happened to him.” The prosecutor, Inumidun Solarin, said the victim’s father reported the matter at the nearest police station. Solarin added that the Investigation Police Officer at the Oko-Oba police station asked the complainant to bring the girl to the station, from where she was taken to a hospital where the doctor confirmed that she was, indeed, raped.  Man charged for raping neighbour’s deaf teenage daughter How our father defiled, raped us, 2 sisters tell court How London-based human trafficker paid assassins to kill elder sister in Nigeria Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.