A special rapporteur from the Global Amnesty Watch (GAW) has hailed the Nigerian military for displaying effective coordination against Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East. The GAW came about this commendation after what it called a systematic tour of selected communities in the once troubled region, including Chibok, Gwoza and Madagali – all supposed strongholds of the radical Islamic sect. In a situation report signed by Williams Cullen and delivered at a press briefing in Abuja on Wednesday, the human rights group revealed that its primary objective was to examine the situation of things in the region, ascertaining whether any Nigerian territory is under the control of Boko Haram/ISWAP fighters. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Mr Cullen claimed that to achieve this, the group adopted all necessary strategies, employing the services of interpreters and a guide to navigate as well as assistance from the Nigerian Army, providing security cover for the team where needed. Among others, in the end, Mr Cullen commended the Nigerian troops for their sustained efforts to ensure that the region continues to enjoy the return of peace. The group established that no part of the visited communities are under the control of the terrorist group as against what is being portrayed by some section of the media. In order to reintegrate properly, the GAW, however, urged the Federal Government and non-governmental organisations in these parts to help the returning inhabitants settle down. “The Global Amnesty Watch upon the scrutiny of the report of the researcher’s herby states that no Nigerian territory is under the control of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorist, rather the more significant part of North-East Nigeria is gradually returning to normalcy. The Global Amnesty Watch also notes that though there is relative peace in these areas, a lot still needs to be done mainly by the newly established North East Development Commission. The North East Development Commission must, as a matter of urgency, hit the ground running to complement the efforts of other critical stakeholders in rebuilding and resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons in the North East region,” he said. Group faults Amnesty International’s report on Farmers/Herdsmen conflict Global Amnesty Watch exenorates Nigerian Millitary of Rights Abuse Hauwa Liman: Boko Haram has dared the world and its people – Global Amnesty Watch Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.