The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has declared the suspended Chairman of the Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP), Mr. Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla, wanted due to his repeated failure to appear before it to answer questions bordering on allegations of fraud and corruption. The spokesperson of the ICPC, Rasheedat Okoduwa, in a statement Tuesday, said Mr. Obono-Obla is facing a series of allegations leveled against him by members of the public on his role as head of the government panel on asset recovery. She said the Commission was in receipt of petitions accusing him of abuse of office, falsification of admission records, living above his income and collection of gratification from suspects under his investigation. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY She said the suspended chairman is also facing allegations of working outside the guidelines governing the panel by investigating unauthorized petitions and prosecuting suspects without recourse to the office of the Attorney General of the Federation. Okoduwa said the ICPC had conducted series of investigations on the allegations with preliminary findings showing that some provisions of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and extant laws of Nigeria had been allegedly violated by Mr. Obono-Obla. “Consequently, ICPC had extended several invitations to him, which he had failed to honour without giving any reason. “Attempts to track and make him appear before the Commission also failed leading ICPC to contact other law enforcement agencies for assistance concerning his whereabouts,” She noted. She explained that, “one of such contact has yielded results as records from the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) show that Mr. Obono-Obla had travelled out of the country.” She said the NIS records revealed that he left the country to an undisclosed location on 17th August 2019, through the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, and has not returned two months after. Buhari dissolves Obono-Obla panel Forgery: Reps panel asks Police to arrest Buhari's anti-graft aide, Obono-Obla Buhari dissolves Presidential Panel for Recovery of Public Property, awaits ICPC’s Report on ex-Chairman