It may be laborious pushing a cart containing 10-12 kegs to a significant distance, about seven times in a day, but the water vendors majority of whom are from the Niger Republic, say it is worthwhile. “It is recompensing, and we derive joy in delivering this essential commodity where needed,” 27-year-old Ousman says. Perhaps, the most ubiquitous of informal water providers, are these vendors. They are easily seen on almost all major streets across satellite  areas, and commercial places within Sokoto metropolis. They penetrate nooks and crannies conveying water in pushcarts. For many residents in areas where there is no pipe-borne water, such as Gidan Igwai, Minnanata, Ungwar Rogo, Dambuwa, Old Airport, these  vendors are the only option. They ensure delivery of the essential commodity to the doorsteps. During water scarcity, the demand for them is even higher. Many are appreciative of the role they play in filling the demand-supply gap in the water supply to the state. “Without them, I would have suffered greatly. These vendors meet our demand for regular water supply to my family of more than 10,” Muhammadu Liye of Dambuwa area said. “We, therefore, rely on the services of the water vendors for our daily needs.” Another Sokoto resident, Malam Umaru, an ex-serviceman, pays for at least one round of 12 kegs daily. “My children, though grown-up, attend Western and Islamiyya schools and have no ample time to fetch water for us. We engage the services of the vendors to satisfy our water needs.” He lauds their efforts for being there most times except for the rainy season when some of them leave for farm works. “At such a period, life could be a bit difficult especially for families like mine who rely on them for our daily water supply.” Hajiya Aisha from a family of 19, said: “Sokoto State government recently disclosed plans for expansion of water pipeline to areas left without it over the years as the town expanded. But since such areas are without piped water, for now, the services of these water vendors remain indispensable to many. “Some people raise the issues of cost and sources of the water gotten through some of these vendors but, on the whole, they satisfy a growing water demand of quite a number of our people.” Over the years, the water vendors, many of whom are from Tahoua, Agadez and Maradi states of Niger Republic, have lingered in the business of water delivery in Sokoto. Suleiman Isah from Danmu village in Tahoua has been into water vending in Sokoto for 20 years. “Initially, a keg was N15 in the area I operated around Bafarawa Estate and we paid the water outlet owners N20 to fill all the 12 kegs,” he disclosed. “Now that people are constructing a lot of water outlets in their homes, we pay N70 or N100 for filing the 12 kegs which we now sell at between N25 toN30.” Isah does between seven and eight trips daily and makes between N2,000 to N2,500. The water vendor, who has a wife and children, said: “It is with this business I take care of them and my parents back home in Niger Republic. I travel home to see them every month-end.” He, however, added that they experience a delay in payment from some consumers, especially civil servants who rely on monthly salary. Twenty-five- year-old Saadu Yunusa from Jahova State, has been in Sokoto for seven years where he started as an almajiri, Islamiyyah student. “Upon graduation, I decided to go into water hawking business because my people are into it,” he stated. He said he was getting enough to feed, clothe and solve other financial demands and that of his parents back in the Niger Republic. “I get N1,000-N1,200 daily, and we buy food and other necessities from it, which leaves us with a meagre amount which we save,” he declares. Another water vendor Idris Aliyu from Agadez said: “Water vending is satisfying.  With it I never lack buyers after all trips for the day.” He, however, complains of the difficulty in getting water to some hard-to-reach areas. “I realise no less than N2,500 a day  and by the end of the month, I save something reasonable for myself and my family.” “When I arrived in Nigeria, I worked at a construction site to get the money to buy a pushcart. I was able to get the funds and paid N30,000 for the wheelbarrow,” Idris Aliyu recalls. They spoke to Caliphate Trust say they regularly pay for a resident permit  to avoid  harassment from immigration officials.  After MDGs flop, battle for potable water rages Zaria Water Problem That Defies Solutions Abuja Water Project Gulps N43 Billion But Scarcity Flows