The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Eket Field Office has sealed eight illegal Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LGP) plants for non approval to operate in the state. The Head of Operations, DPR, Mr Joy Koro said during a routine surveillance yesterday in Uyo that some of the sealed gas plants have no approval from DPR before commencing sales of the product or storing the vessels in the state. He stated that the gas plants did not meet the standard requirements, while the land used for the LPG plants was not up to the minimum requirement for plants. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Koro explained that the department had given them early approval but would not give them the final approval, until they meet the requirements. He noted that the department had stop work on some of the LPG plants and asked them to remove the gas plants. “Today’s operation is on routine surveillance of LPG plants, we are checking compliance to our safety standards, current storage and sales license and illegal gas plants that have been stored without our approval. “The critical distance from the adjoining structure fell below the approval and the regulation we gave to them, they did not follow it. “They got the gas plant without measuring the distance from the adjoining wall to the gas storage of the vessels. “And if they refuse, we will write to the security agencies to prosecute them accordingly,” he stated. DPR shuts 17 illegal LPG outlets in Ibadan Ogun: 3 suspects in DPR net over illegal operation of gas plant Ogun: Three suspects in DPR net for operating illegal gas plant Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.