The National Information Technology Development Agency Monday at the ongoing GITEX Technology Week in Dubai put Nigeria’s name in the world’s advanced technology register by launching a hardware designed by the Minister of Communications, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami and a director at NITDA, Dr Agu Collins Agu. The device, which was designed and produced in two years, could teach pupils in primary school the act of Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things, Agu told Daily Trust in an interview in Dubai on Monday. “The hardware will embed problem solving capability through creative thinking and problem-based learning methods, especially at the early age. It will also accelerate local content development and indigenization of technology through human capital development in emerging technologies’’, he said. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Named UnityBoard, the device, according to the NITDA’s senior official, is a creative medium for advancing teaching and learning, designed specifically as hands-on learning tools to help today’s students build skills for the creative and digital economy through critical thinking. “When students are free to invent and create, they begin to see technology as a means for solving real-world problems’’, he said. He said by introducing IOT in early education via UnityBoard, it would change Nigeria’s education system massively. “Technological revolution is currently ongoing in the country and it is just a matter of time that Nigeria’s economy will witness dramatic development and growth like those of advanced economies’’, Dagu said.  Nigeria launches device co-designed by Pantami Nigeria readies 10 startups for GITEX 2017 NITDA to stop N37.8bn MDAs projects Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.