The Nigerian Army on Sunday in Ibadan said that no fewer than 141 officers would sit for its 2019 Captain to Major Practical Promotion Examination. The Commander, Training and Doctrine Command, Maj.-Gen. Abubakar Tarfa, disclosed this during the flag-off ceremony of the week long exercise at the Officers’ Mess of 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Ibadan. He said that the candidates, including two female officers, were drawn from formations and units across the country. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “The objective of the test is to prepare candidates to attain the junior staff course and ascertain their improvement, knowledge and standard in military profession. “It will assess the knowledge of the candidates in command and tactical employment of “Mech Inf Bn Gp” in all phases of war and assess ability to administer men and resources in all phases of war. “The exercise will also assist the Nigerian Army in career planning for the officers while stimulating competitive spirit among all candidates,” he said. Tarfa also said that candidates must obtain a minimum of 50 percent in each subject and 60 percent overall to pass the examination. He assured the candidates that the examination was realistic and within the approved syllabi, adding that malpractice would attract maximum sanction. “Your success in this examination will be milestone in your career. This success should however not be attained through fraudulent means. “The Army Headquarters policy allows a candidate three attempts to pass the examination. “I, therefore, urge you all to put your best in this examination,” he said. He urged the Directing Staff charged with assessing the candidates on professionalism, integrity and commitment to duty. “I want to emphasise that all the Directing Staff must endeavour to give candidates enough confidence to give their best. “Probing must be done fairly, independently and without malice. “Be good ambassadors and you must be fair but firm in your assessment,” he said. (NAN) 24 Captains fail Army promotion exams Army chief urges innovative handling of insurgency Army trains female soldiers in counter-terrorism operations