Analysts at the Association for Public Policy Analysis (APPA) have faulted the federal government over the borrowing of N195 billion from the World Bank to revive the power sector instead of seeking private funding. At a briefing on Tuesday in reaction to the Daily Trust report on the borrowing, the National President of APPA, Comrade Princewill Okorie who expressed the view of its members, said government did not consider the electricity consumer in the borrowing plan “even when the consumers will ultimately pay back the loan through electricity tariffs in the privatised sector.” APPA said the loan will increase Nigeria’s debt profile and eat up large chunk of the federal budget in debt servicing. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “The 2020 budget proposal has appropriated N2.45 trillion for debt serving. Rather, effort should be made to encourage the independent electricity distribution networks to function optimally,” Okorie noted. The association said the option will stir competition among private investors rather than government continually borrowing to drive power generation, transmission and distribution. “Through willing buyer and willing seller, they operate in a peaceful, transparent way with the consumers without the corrupt practices of estimated billing and unlawful practices by the Distribution Companies (DisCos),” he said. Daily Trust reports that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) issues licences for Independent Electricity Distribution Network (IEDN) and permits for mini-grids which are parallel firms distributing power in a lesser capacity than the 11 DisCos. The association also announced plan to launch the Federal Policy Advocacy and Monitoring Programme (FEPAM) on Tuesday in Abuja. The initiative, it said, will drive policy advocacy by exposing grassroots people to the public projects and programmes at the federal, state and local government levels. FG to sink fresh N915bn loan into power sector Buhari seeks $5.5bn foreign loan Cut down borrowing, experts tell FG