The Nigeria military has handed over 25 children, who were formally associated with Boko Haram insurgents, to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Borno State government for their reintegration into the society. Theatre Commander of Operations Lafiya Dole, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi did the handing over the lads in Maiduguri on Thursday on behalf of the military. He urged the state government and partners to ensure that the children get adequate education. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “Let me say here that I am handing over 25 children formerly associated with Boko Haram. These children have been cleared of any wrong doing because they were arrested during our operations along with their fathers who are still under investigation. “So, we are happy for these children but I know Boko Haram criminals are not happy because they could not use them as suicide bombers,” Adeniyi said. Speaking on the release of the children, UNICEF’s acting representative in Nigeria, Pennile Ironside, said these are children taken away from their families and communities, deprived of their childhood, education, health-care, and of the chance to grow up in a safe and enabling environment. He said, UNICEF will continue working to ensure that all conflict affected children are reunited with their families, have hope of fulfilling their dreams and their human rights. The children will be kept at a UNICEF supported Transit Centre whilst efforts to reunite them with their families and reintegrate them back to their communities are underway. UNICEF said it will access medical and psychosocial support, education, vocational training and informal apprenticeships, and opportunities to improve their livelihoods. “We have made progress, but we would like to see all children suspected of involvement with armed groups, transferred out of military custody to the care of the relevant local authorities as quickly as possible to facilitate their return to their families and communities, spending minimal, if any, time in detention. “As we commemorate the 30th Anniversary for the Convention of the Rights of the Child this year, we must collectively commit to do more for the protection, well-being and development of children in Nigeria, including by ensuring that they are not recruited or used in conflicts in the first place,” said Ironside. Army hands over 23 minors rescued from Boko Haram to UNICEF 183 teenagers working for Boko Haram handed over to UN B/Haram: Why military authorities are at loggerheads with NGOs