First Lady Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has admitted that she was the one locked out of a residence at the Presidential Villa in Abuja as shown in a video. Speaking to BBC Hausa Service, she said the daughter of her husband’s nephew, Fatima Mamman Daura, recorded the video. “It is me in‎ the video and those seen behind were security personnel attached to me. It was the daughter of Mamman Daura who recorded in the presence of my security personnel and other people. She was even laughing at me.’’ OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY She said Fatima’s action was because the president had asked Mamman Daura  to vacate the house for her son. “I just wanted to pass through a store and they locked it. I took another route and still found it locked.” Also speaking to the BBC, Fatima admitted recording the video. She said the house where the incident happened was formally occupied by her father but was ‎asked to vacate it for the president’s son to move in. She however said she did not lock out the president’s wife Fatima said their parents, who were then out of  the country, had instructed her and her sister to move their belongings to the new residence. “Because both of us are working, they told us to use the weekend (Saturday) to move his things to the new house. “We have almost finished packing when we heard noise outside. .‎I was in the inner room while my sister was in the other room close to the main entrance. The door was locked. We normally lock it. My sister went out. She did not know it was the President’s wife who was trying to open the door. “When she (Aisha) tried and found it locked, she took a metal chair ‎and threw it at the door vandalising it. My sister was nearly hit by the chair. “When I peeped out, I heard the noise, I was even scared. She was shouting and abusing saying that, we should get out of the house,” she said. Fatima said she quickly went back, took her phone and started recording so that people would believe what transpired as the first lady had allegedly been complaining about being maltreated. “I recorded so that we could show our parents and the security personnel in case the situation escalates.’’ She said she was not the one who released the video. “If we want the video out, it would have been out since last year. We did not know how it got out. But you know, once one person gets hold of it, this is bound to happen. Really, it was me who recorded it.”  Aisha Buhari away from Nigeria for 2 months Now, ritualists lay siege to Katsina How Aisha is stealing  show in Buhari’s ‘Next Level’