Gombe State House of Assembly will screen daughter of a former governor of the state, Dr Hussaina Danjuma Goje (Akko) and four other commissioner-nominees today. The house yesterday commenced the screening of commissioner-nominees submitted to it by Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya. Others to be screened today are Meshack Lauco (Shongom); Adamu Dishi (Funakaye); Mohammed Gambo Magaji (Dukku) and Usman Jahun Biri (Nafada). OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The house, presided over by Speaker Abubakar Sadiq Ibrahim, yesterday screened the first batch of seven nominees after the house dissolved to committee of the whole. According to chairman of the committee, Shuaibu Adamu Haruna, the commissioner-nominees would be screened in three batches between Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. The nominees screened are; Barr. Zubairu Mohammed Umar (Funakaye); Ibrahim Dasuki Jalo Waziri (Gombe); Mohammed Magaji Gettado (Akko) and Mr Julius Ishaya (Kaltungo). Three others screened are; Mijinyawa Yahaya (Balanga); Ibrahim Alhassan and Dr Aishatu Umar Maigari (Dukku). During his screening, Barrister Umar said he will approach the officials of the past administration alleged to have stolen public fund instead of prosecuting them. According to him, prosecution will take a long time and waste public fund before the stolen fund could be recovered. On his part, Dasuki Jalo Waziri said most LGAs were unable to pay salaries because of over employment of staff and misplacement of priorities in projects. Our correspondent reports that three nominees, Dr Aishatu, Magaji Gettado and Julius Ishaya, were asked to take a bow after introducing themselves before the house. Gettado is a one-time member of the house, Ishaya is APC deputy chairman for Gombe South, while Aishatu Maigari is one of the only three female nominees. Nasarawa Assembly confirms commissioner-nominees as Gombe, Katsina, Kwara set for screening Nasarawa Assembly concludes commissioner-nominees screening today Yobe Assembly screens 6 commissioner nominees