More than 200,000 people from 217 countries have visited Ethiopia in the last two years on the platform of the e-visa service introduced in June 2017, Ethiopian Airlines Group has disclosed. With the introduction of e-visa service back in June 2017, Ethiopia has opened its doors for foreign visitors wider than ever before. Ever since, the e-visa service has redefined visitors’ travel experience, easing entry into the country with digitized service accessible from any part of the world. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Besides the e-visa service, travelers flying Ethiopian also enjoy seamless and end-to-end service using the innovative mobile application of the airline. According to the Airlines Group, backed by a dedicated round-the-clock customer support via email, the e-Visa service enables travelers secure e-Visa in less than 6 hours with a short turnaround time at the airport. Speaking on the feat, the Ethiopian Group CEO, Mr. Tewolde GebreMariam said, “The milestone in the number of travelers who visited Ethiopia through the e-visa service comes as a good news to all of us in the tourism and travel industry. “The 200,000 milestone is indicative of the fact that the number of visitors who use the digitized service is on the rise. This will bring more benefits to Ethiopia in terms of facilitating travel and promoting tourism, trade and investment to the country.” With the boom in the global Meetings, Incentives, Conferences & Exhibitions (MICE) industry, the e-visa service gives Ethiopia an edge to reap the benefits the industry offers. The air connectivity Ethiopia enjoys as the hub of Ethiopian Airlines Group coupled with the mushrooming of hotels and lodgings in the country will further elevate Ethiopia as a preferred MICE hub. We will collaborate with Nigeria on national carrier – ET Africans to get Ethiopia’s visa on arrival Can Ethiopia’s new leader, a political insider, change it from the inside out?