Gunmen have shot dead two persons who are yet to be identified and injured six others at Kwaku village in Kuje Area Council of the FCT. Our reporter learnt that the six persons were hit by stray bullets from the gunmen who invaded the community around 1:30am yesterday. A resident of the community, Ayuba Danlami, said the gunmen shot indiscriminately at houses in the community. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said two young men were hit when they attempted to escape through the backyard of one of the houses under attack. “The two children and four other victims that sustained bullet wounds tried to escape after they heard the sound of gun shots and stray bullets hit them,” he said. According to him, the gunmen fled into the bush when some vigilante members from a neighbouring village mobilised to the scene. He said the injured victims were later taken to a hospital in Gwagwalada for treatment. City News gathered that Kwaku community has over the years suffered attacks from kidnappers and cattle rustlers. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, confirmed the incident, saying the police have commenced investigation. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, has condemned the incident. Sabo was speaking when he visited some of the injured victims receiving treatment at a hospital in Gwagwalada yesterday. He directed heads of security agencies in the area council to fish out the perpetrators of the attacks. “As we sympathize with the families of those that sustained injuries, we equally condole with the families of those that were killed during the attack. But I want to make it categorically clear that the perpetrators will not escape justice no matter how highly placed as we have directed our security to ensure they go and fish out the culprits,” he said. The chairman, reiterated his administration’s commitment towards ensuring peace across the council, while urging residents to go about their normal businesses.