The ongoing forensic audit of statutory remittances by oil and gas companies into the Nigerian Content Development Fund (NCDF) will end on November 30, the Executive Secretary (ES) of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, has said. Engr. Wabote said this during a recent meeting in Abuja with forensic auditors contracted by the board, hinting that the reports from the exercise would be studied carefully with the aim of forwarding the cases of serious defaulters to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for further investigation. In a statement, NCDMB said the board was considering other stiff sanctions against defaulters, including the possibility of barring such companies from participating in the tendering system for upstream contracts and instituting a process whereby companies must obtain NCDF clearance before their applications for expatriate quota would be processed by the board. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Section 104 of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act stipulates the deduction of one per cent of the value of contracts awarded in the upstream sector of the oil and gas industry and remittance into the NCDF. The fund is used for funding the development of Nigerian content in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The ES said the first phase of the audit commenced in October, 2018, while the second and third phases started in November, 2018, and February, 2019, respectively. He added that, “The initial target completion period is six months. The board wishes to close out the exercise by December 31, 2019, hence, all audit must conclude before November 30, 2019.” Assessing the preliminary feedback from the audit, Wabote said, “Some companies were aware of their obligations before the exercise started and so bluntly refused to cooperate with the board and the forensic auditors assigned to them. The board will move against them. “Some companies adopted delay tactics and partially released documents to the auditors in a manner that impeded a successful audit. The auditors are required to explore all means to determine their obligation as an interim measure, using best-of-judgement approach.” Audit uncovers non-remittances  of funds by oil companies How IDPs, others tap from Nigerian content pool NCDMB, EFCC to partner in probing oil firms infractions