Members of the Kogi West Elders Forum (KWEF) have endorsed the second term bid of Governor Yahaya Bello of the state ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state. Rising from a meeting with the governor in Abuja, KWEF, a body of non-partisan community leaders, said the endorsement of Bello, the governorship candidate of APC, was in the best interest of the state. The forum, in a communique issued at the end of the meeting said: “Having gauged the political direction and reviewed the present power equation in Kogi State and without prejudice to any parochial interest, it is the considered opinion of the forum to support the re-election of Governor Yahaya Bello in the larger interest of the people of West Senatorial District.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The communique was signed by Gen David M. Jemibewon (rtd), Gen. Abdullahi B Mamman (rtd), Alh Idris A. Yusuf Tawari, Vice Admiral Ajayi Joseph (rtd), Gen. J.O.S Oshanupin (rtd), Chief Engr. Funso Ako and Dr. Oluwayomi David Atte. Others were Col. Olusegun Oloruntoba (rtd), Dr. Tunde Arosanyin, Chief James O. Awoniyi, Chief Bayo Ojo SAN, Chief Benjamin Taiwo, Chief Funmi Bodunde, Dan D. Kunle, Alh Isiaq Ajibola and Deinde Abolarin The forum resolved that going forward it would engage in regular interactions with the government in order to achieve the aspiration of the people of their senatorial district. It welcomed the commitment of the governor to combat any form of insecurity in the state. “Whereas the government pledged to continue to pay salaries of workers, going forward, the forum will monitor this to ensure that the government continues to pay the salaries of its workers including the local governments’ staff. “Whereas the government promised the completion of all ongoing projects in the senatorial district, the forum will set up a project monitoring committee (PMC) that would regularly monitor the implementation of projects in the senatorial district,” the forum said in the communique.  APC aspirants’ forum endorses Audu Kogi: APC Aspirants’ Forum rejects Yahaya Bello for 2nd term Dino Melaye declares for Kogi guber race