Barring any last minute twist, the Federal Government may have concluded plans to tow the path of airports concession in the country. In fact, according to the 2020 budget estimate presented last week, the sum of N347, 592,036 was allocated to consultancy for the concession of four airports: Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano. Experts believe the planned concession is not unconnected with the many positives that are derivable from concession which was hitherto unpopular among policy makers in the sector, hence why many players are still against the concession proposal. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Industry watchers and stakeholders, however, believe that the advantages of allowing private investors to take over the management of airports far outweigh the disadvantages (if any) and stressed the need for government at all levels to support this laudable initiative and ultimately see to its logical formulation and eventual take off. But beyond the argument of pro-concession campaigners, it remains to be seen how government intends to go about it; which model it intends to follow and or adopt without losing focus on the essence of such intervention. Worthy of note also is the challenge of unions in the industry who have not hidden their disdain for concession, a thing other nations of the world have utilised to their advantage. In fact, the concession of the Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA2), the first ever Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement in airport operation in the country, has endured what some experts call “untold assault and sabotage.” But the challenges with the MMA2 operation have been blamed on inconsistency in policy formulation and execution, allowance of anti-concession posture among government officials and failure to honour agreement. An analyst, Mr. Adeola Olatunji, asked, “In practical terms, how would the nation’s economy move forward in an atmosphere where genuine and sensitive business policy of this nature is not allowed to thrive? Can there be any meaningful development where supposed government officials discreetly put up structures to corrode whatever effort government is making to make the nation’s economy work? Why would such a virile business option be subjected to the whims and caprices of saboteurs?” Many advocates of concession, however, believe that privatisation remains the only panacea for the effective and efficient management of the airports. These, they argue, will further insulate the managers from political interference while there will be expected returns on investment, adding that it has been exemplified by the managers of MMA2. However, as it is safe and totally a welcome development to concession the nation’s airports, questions are being asked about why the Federal Government has refused to address pending issues regarding the concession of MMA2 to Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) and that for how long will the government continue to pretend and not ever be ready to face facts and address the issues frontally? Our correspondent recalls that right from the first tenure of Senator Hadi Sirika as Minister of State for Aviation, the promise to resolve the MMA2 debacle has been elusive. The unfortunate situation of the MMA2 concession, according experts, is a burden on its own and that it is enough to scare away potential investors. This is part of the reasons analysts have always clamoured for a workable policy framework to drive the system – the type that can stand the test of time; the very type that will remain valid through successive administrations. An industry expert who spoke with our correspondent said, “A serious nation with genuine desire to make meaningful impact in one of its critical sectors cannot afford to be doing the same thing year in year out and expect different results. The fact still remains that government has no business running businesses. “All that is required is for government through its agencies to provide the much needed environment and support vis-a-vis supervision for businesses to thrive. They are to ensure policy thrusts of government are clearly defined, planned and well executed; and that there is water-tight policy framework which must be adhered to religiously. “Without these indices in place, the nation may be in for another round of turbulence in the nation’s volatile aviation industry.” Also speaking, the President of Aviation Roundtable, Dr. Gbenga Olowo, said he eagerly awaited the concessioning of the airports as promised by the government five years ago. Issues as FG concessions Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt airports Sudden concession of airports June 1