An advert placed in newspapers recently congratulating former governor of Kano State, Dr Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, on his birthday by the incumbent governor of the state, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has generated debate among supporters of the two politicians. Governor Ganduje had on Tuesday, October 22, 2019 placed a full page coloured advertisement in two national newspapers, Daily Trust and the Nation, congratulating his predecessor, Dr Kwankwaso, on his 63rd birthday anniversary. The congratulatory message was published 24 hours after supporters of the two politicians clashed at a newly constructed underpass along Madobi road in Kano. Scores of supporters of Kwankwasiyya were injured and over 20 vehicles damaged according to Alhaji Sanusi Surajo Kwankwaso, a diehard supporter of Kwankwaso. Daily Trust observed that the two incidents have caused serious debate among supporters of the two politicians with each passing the buck at the other leader. While supporters of Kwankwaso considered the advertorial as a deception and a diversionary tactics, their opponents however said it was a sign of respect and honour to Kwankwaso. Alhaji Sanusi Surajo Kwankwaso told Daily Trust that the advertorial meant nothing them but hypocrisy, noting “how can they on earth attack us today and tomorrow, they come out on the pages of newspapers congratulating our leader. Do you expect us to take it serious? Countering him, however, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Abdulmajid Danbalki Commander, said Ganduje had done the right thing by congratulating his predecessor. “Ganduje has exhibited high level of maturity. He has shown to the world that he still has respect for Kwankwaso. For me, Ganduje has shown that he’s a complete gentleman. The congratulatory message has nothing to do with politics as claimed by Kwankwasiyya group,” he said. Also reacting, the state’s APC chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas dismissed the Kwankwasiyya claims that they were attacked by APC thugs, noting that “neither government nor APC had a hand whatsoever in the incident. “I only heard about it when journalists approached me for comment,” he said. 5 MONTHS AFTER HANDOVER: Things fall apart between Kwankwaso and Ganduje Kwankwaso, Ganduje factions disagree on peace terms Defections change political calculations in Kano