Cabo Verde Airlines (CVA), the national carrier of Cape Verde, is set to commence flight operations to Nigeria with Lagos Sal, Cape Verde route on December 9, 2019. The airline said yesterday that it was poised to connect passengers from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Lagos to many cities in Europe via Sal. President and CEO of the airlines Jens Bjarnason, who briefed newsmen at MMIA in Lagos on Tuesday, disclosed that the airline would fly five times a week – Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, with a Boeing 757, with 161 economy class seats and 22 executive seats. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The inaugural flight is scheduled to depart from Amílcar Cabral International Airport (Sal) at 20:50 local time and arrive at Murtala Muhammed Airport (Lagos) at 02:10 local time. The airline management had earlier met over 300 travel agents in Nigeria with an enticing 20 per cent discount offer to commence operations. “We are very aggressive in our offerings, in the discount to the travel agents,” he said. Vice-President Sales and Marketing Raul Andrade said the new flight services from Lagos also offer Nigerians opportunity to explore the various islands of Cabo Verde for tourism. Nigeria Country Manager, Cabo Verde Airlines, Tariye Orianzi, said: “We are targeting African entrepreneurs, leisure and business travellers as well as world travellers with our competitive pricing and offers, including a Cape Verde stopover programme at no additional ticket costs. Interestingly, Cape Verde is a member of ECOWAS making it visa free for Nigerians.” Med-View: Why we are deploying B777 for London operations Med-view takes delivery of B777 aircraft, to service international routes Air Namibia berths in Nigeria Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.