The various interventions in the last 30 years have protected deposits and strengthen the banking system, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Umar Ibrahim has said. Speaking at the press briefing to commemorate the 30th anniversaries of the Corporation, Ibrahim said the Corporation ensured that Depositors of liquidated banks suffered little loss or pain. Between 1994 to date, 53 Deposit Money Bank (DMBs), 325 Micro Finance Banks (MFBs) and 51 Primary Mortgage Banks (PMBs) were put under liquidation without disruption to the nation’s payment system. Ibrahim, represented by the Director Communication and Public Affairs , Dr Sunday Oluyemi at the conference on Friday said the role played by the corporation in the Financial Crisis of 2009, which manifested in poor Asset Quality and Weak Risk Management, as well as weaknesses in Corporate Governance in the banking sector significantly revived the confidences of depositors. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “Furthermore, in the discharge of its statutory role under Section 39 (i) of the NDIC Act 16 of 2006 and in consultation with the CBN, the Corporation adopted the Bridge Bank mechanism to resolve the failure of three (3) DMBs namely Afribank, Spring Bank and BankPHB in 2011. Similarly, in 2018, that mechanism was used to resolve the failure of Skye Bank Plc. Indeed, the merits of the bridge bank to the nation’s economy are numerous.” “It should interest you to note that the bridge bank initiative safeguarded 12,667 jobs, protected deposit liabilities of over ₦1.759 trillion which ensured that depositors had uninterrupted access to their funds, and prevented the systemic repercussions of the failure of the bank on the entire financial system.” The NDIC boss said. He explained that the bridge bank option engendered macro-economic stability, sustained daily operations of the failed banks including meeting maturing obligations and enhanced the confidence of Depositors and other Stakeholders. He said other interventions by the Corporation was through realisation of assets. “Currently ₦21.502 billion was collected from the disposal of physical assets of closed DMBs, while N404.74 million and ₦78.17 million were realised in respect of MFBs and PMBs, respectively. Also in debt collection and assets sales culminated in the payments of over ₦116.258 billion as Liquidation Dividends to Depositors, Creditors and Shareholders of closed DMBs, MFBs and PMBs as at today. “It is important to stress that through sustained and diligent liquidation activities, NDIC has realized assets to pay in full, deposits of the customers of 17 of the DMBs (in-liquidation). In effect, all the depositors of the 17 defunct banks who came forward to file their claims have been paid all their monies (both insured and uninsured) erstwhile trapped in those banks.” NDIC to customers: Report trapped deposits in failed banks NDIC reiterates commitment to protect depositors, promote stable banking system Beware of ‘wonder banks’, NDIC warns