Chairman of the Senate committee on tertiary institutions and TETFUND, Senator Ahmad Babba Kaita (APC,  Katsina North), has urged Nigerian youths to shun anything that will impede the development of the country. Kaita, in a statement by his media aide Abdulkadir Lawal, said certainly the nation’s independence anniversary called for celebration by all in view of the joy Nigerians experienced when the nation’s founding fathers took their destiny into their own hands to secure the country’s freedom on October 1, 1960. “It gladdens my heart to witness this day. It’s a great and most important day for all Nigerians. We celebrate the day with enthusiasm and euphoria year in year out. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “Fifty-nine years of nationhood is of utmost importance to all of us as it gives us the opportunity to reflect, remember and appreciate our fallen heroes and founding fathers who sacrificed their wealth, time, energy and some even paid the ultimate price to give us an enduring, peaceful life that we are enjoying. “We are hugely indebted to them for these sacrifices,” he said. Describing the theme of this year’s Independence Day, ‘Unlocking the Potential of Youths’ as apt and timely, he said the APC-led administration places high premium on youth development and is very much determined to move Nigerians to the next level  where there’s opportunity for all. “I firmly believe that there’s hope for the Nigerian youth. No doubt youth empowerment and general development are so dear to the heart of President Muhammadu Buhari. His programmes and policies, such as the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP),  are touching the lives of Nigerian youths in particular in many positive ways,” he said. He also applauded the effort of the Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari, in the area of security/dialogue with bandits and kidnappers, noting that his tireless efforts in that regard were yielding positive results. Kaita urged his constituents to at all times have respect for constituted authority, advising that the nation is governed by the rule of law and people must ensure they don’t take the law into their hands. Nigeria @ 59: Better days ahead, Kaita admonishes Youths APC vs. PDP: How 2 brothers battled for same Senate seat SGF unveils Democracy Day Exhibition, advises Nigerians on consciousness