The Abuja branch of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) and the CLEEN Foundation have inaugurated a resource centre to promote accountability and transparency in the criminal justice system. Speaking at the inauguration on Monday in Abuja, the Executive Director of the foundation, Dr. Benson Olugbuo, said the centre was a human capacity development and empowerment venue for every Nigerian. He said the resource centre was inaugurated with the support of the MacArthur Foundation to provide records of court judgments at zero cost to both lawyers, litigants, media and the public. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said the court judgments would now be at the fingertips of both lawyers and litigants within seven days from final judgment. “Instead of waiting for the hard copies of court judgments, the judgments would be made available to lawyers at their fingertips. Data from courts would be collated, uploaded and updated into our UWAZI application online within seven days from the date of judgment,” Olugbuo said. He said that the concept was to digitalize records of court judgments for reference and research purposes. He also said that the UWAZI online application platform was very accessible as the platform could be accessed with or without internet connections. He said UWAZI platform is a web platform by CLEEN Foundation aimed at digitalizing courts proceedings and judgments in Nigeria with a view to promoting accountability and transparency in the fight against corruption. “It enables users to scan, upload, publish court documents and create a table of contents while end users can search, filter documents, track changes, cross reference and download documents and court rulings on criminal cases,” he said. The NBA Chairman, Abuja branch, Barrister Folarin Aluko, commended the foundation, saying that the resource centre was a commendable initiative. Aluko, who was represented by Barrister Tunji Adeyebi, said the establishment of the centre was long awaited.  Foundation launches platform for digitization of corruption, criminal justice in Nigeria ADR as panacea to prolonged litigation in courts? Judges performance evaluation report: Matters arising Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.