The remains of three out of the five persons, including three policemen killed by soldiers during the arrest of a kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Bala (Wadume), in Taraba State, have been released and buried, Daily Trust gathered. Inspector Mark Ediale, Sergeants Usman Danzumi and Dahiru Musa and two civilians including Bashir Faruk, were killed during a confrontation with soldiers along Ibi-Jalingo Road in Taraba State on Tuesday, August 6, 2019. Victims’ families and security source told our correspondent that three corpses were released on October 10, a day after this paper did an exclusive story on the delay in the release of the remains of the victims, over two months after they were killed. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Speaking to our correspondent, Ahmed Sajo Abubakar, an uncle to Faruk said the corpse of his nephew was released to them 65 days after he was killed by soldiers. Abubakar, who is a staff of Taraba State Ministry of Commerce and Industry, said the remains of his nephew were buried at the Gudu cemetery in Abuja in line with Islamic rites. Demanding for justice, he urged the federal government to assist the wife and two children the deceased left behind. Also speaking, late Sgt. Musa’s brother, Mr Ahmed Audu said the corpse of his brother had been released to them. “He has been buried in Abuja. We are appealing to the federal government to assist his family. He left behind three children and wife. He died during active service,” Audu said in a phone interview. However, the wife of late Insp. Ediale, Olubumi, said the corpse of her late husband was still at the morgue in Abuja. “They have called us to come for my husband’s corpse but there is an issue on where he would be interred, hence we have not carried it,” she said via phone interview. Recalled that the Board of Inquiry (BOI) constituted to probe the matter had on October 8, released its report and recommended that the army and police should further investigate Capt. Tijani Balarabe, Sergeant Ibrahim Mohammed, Corporal Bartholomew Obanye, DCO Ibi Police Division, ASP Aondoona Iorbee, and Insp. Aliyu Dadje for complacency. The BOI, in a statement by acting Director of Defence Information, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, also recommended that further investigation be conducted on Wadume for gunrunning and kidnapping. Wadume: Slain cops, civilians still in morgue as soldiers yet to be court martialled Hunt continues for ‘kidnap kingpin’ as police fault army Soldiers aided my escape  from police, Wadume says