The Centre for Children’s Health Education, Orientation and Protection (CEE-HOPE), has charged federal, state and local governments in the country to prioritize child friendly policies. It also launched a book titled ‘Justice for Ochanya’ in honour of late Ochanya Ogbanje, to mark the one year anniversary since Ochanya Ogbanje died after she was allegedly abused by her uncle. Daily Trust reports that Ochanya Ogbanje was a 13-year-old girl that was sexually molested allegedly by her aunt’s husband, Andrew Ogbuja and his son, Victor Ogbuja in Benue State. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The actions were said to have continued from age eight till her death in October 2018 due to health complications as a result of incessant rape. Following her death, CEE-HOPE Nigeria, said the child protection workshop became essential to ensure that justice is served on Ochanya’s death, and to advocate the immediate end to child molestation and sexual abuse. Speaking at the event in Lagos, the Convener of CEE-HOPE Nigeria, Betty Abah, called on Nigeria to prioritize child friendly policies that will cater for the wellbeing of the children, especially the most vulnerable ones. She said, “We are using this workshop to draw the attention of the general public and the government to the fact that the case is ongoing and that justice must be served for Ochanya.” Ochanya’s brother and journalist, Ameh John, at the event said, “The quest for justice is to ensure that little girls and vulnerable women within the community and in Nigeria as a whole and safe from the pandemic of sexual violence. And we are convinced that this is why Nigerians and the world are united in demanding justice for Ochanya.” A guest speaker at the event, Princess Olufemi Kayode, who is also a sexual-violence response expert, called on government agencies involved in child’s rights’ programmes to summon political will that will give importance to children’s wellbeing and ensure great consequences are meted out to child molesters at every level. Prioritize child friendly policies, group tells federal, state govts We’re resuscitating the school in Ochanya’s village — Ortom Rape: Ochanya’s family appeals to new IGP to arrest fleeing suspect