The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said it would deepen its collaboration with anti-graft agencies to tackle the menace of vote buying during the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said this yesterday in Abuja during the quarterly consultative meeting between INEC and political parties. He said the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) would specifically monitor the movement of cash during electioneering campaigns and on election day in the two states. He said the move follows the success recorded by the EFCC in securing the first conviction of a vote buyer in Gombe state. The INEC boss warned all staff of the commission on election duties to remain neutral and maintain professionalism in the discharge of their duties. He also tasked political parties to advise their candidates and supporters against hate speech, violence and other sundry violation of the electoral act. On his part, the National Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), High Chief Peter Ameh, who opposed the call for deregistration of political parties stressed the need for multiple political parties in the country. Meanwhile, the commission has commenced the training for visually impaired voters on how to use braille ballot guide and magnifying glasses on election day. INEC Director in charge of civil society organisations Mrs Dorothy Bello, while speaking at the opening of the training/sensitisation workshop in Lokoja, said it was designed for the visually impaired who were not well versed in braille. The state chairman of the Joint Association of People Living with Disabilities, Mr Solomon Yahaya, described the sensitisation as timely, saying it will ensure full participation of visually impaired voters in the election. Bayelsa/Kogi governorship: INEC to partner EFCC, ICPC over vote buying Appointments will legalize Kogi, Bayelsa elections – Falana INEC bans food selling at polling units