Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State yesterday said a factional leader of the APC in the state, Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa and other members of the G-8 must support him to succeed as they have no option. Daily Trust reports that it was Marafa’s suit on the governorship primaries of the APC that brought in Matawalle after the governorship election. The Supreme Court had ruled against APC in Zamfara State. At the peak of the APC primaries tussle, Marafa and seven other aspirants formed the Group of Eight (G-8). Hosting Marafa and members of his camp at the government house, Gusau, the governor said: “If I fail, it is you the G-8 that fail. So, you have to come and support us for the state to succeed. Let’s work together. Our government is for all.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He thanked Marafa and his supporters for their support and prayer and pledged to continue to work for the interest of the people of the state. The governor said his administration would strictly ensure adherence to the rule of law. He reaffirmed that, “my government is a party-less one. We will work with people irrespective of party affiliations and differences. I won’t call you APC members, I’ll call you lovers of Zamfara because of what you have done. You did it not because of me but the people of our state. As you rightly said, it’s God that brought me through the instrument of G-8.” Earlier, Marafa said his visit along with top members of his APC faction was to throw their weights behind the state government in its effort to bring about the much needed peace in the state. Marafa  who was quoted in a statement issued in Abuja,  reaffirmed his membership of APC. He also said his faction of the party led by Alhaji Sirajo Maikatako was still intact. “I want to use this opportunity to reaffirm to the people of Zamfara and other Nigerians that I remain an APC member. I want to inform Nigerians that APC in Zamfara remains divided. My faction is still intact and no going back,” he said. He advised the state government to review the Shariah legal system being practiced in the state. I'm still in APC, Marafa tells Governor Mattawale Breaking: I'll remain in APC to fight injustice, support Buhari's 're election -Marafa Matawalle’s days in the House of Reps Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.