Only consistent and inclusive economic growth, underpinned by a competitive, private sector-led, productive economy can move Nigeria’s economy toward its real progress, The President of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Asue A. Ighodalo has said. Speaking yesterday in his opening remark at the 25th Nigeria Economic Summit in Abuja, Ighodalo said by 2050, majority of the Nigeria’s projected 400+ million people will be under the age of 35, therefore we need to confront our realities and craft a new national agenda that will proactively and urgently drive inclusive double-digit growth and development, over the next three decades. “It sounds daunting, but it is not impossible.  It has been done before; by others in situations similar to ours, but never by accident.  The kind of economy we require, that will earn us a seat at the table with regional and global giants, must be both deliberate and audacious. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “If we plan just to survive or maintain our current trajectory, we will have sacrificed the future of a large number of the world’s future inhabitants.” According to him, the United Nations projects that Nigeria’s population will double by the Year 2050 to 410 million, and the country will become the third most populous nation in the world behind China and India. “Basically, the population is projected to grow by a little over 3% per annum. If true, and it does not seem unrealistic, GDP must grow by at least that much, year on year, for us to just maintain our current GDP per capita – this is without accounting for inflation.  Clearly, we do not have that luxury.” “Our current GDP per capita, even at zero inflation, on its own, and more so when we factor in wealth distribution disparities, is not a metric we can afford to have stand still… But if we plan to thrive and excel in this new world that is emerging, we can work to restore glory to our country, and lead this continent to a place of relevance in tomorrow’s economy. “Singapore did it. South Korea did it. China did it. Radical transformation is possible. Destinies can and do change. All it takes is concerted effort. The urgency of now. And the will to change,” he said. The theme for this year’s Summit – “Nigeria 2050: Shifting Gears” – is deliberately set against this background, with a focus on setting a new agenda, tailored to Nigeria, and defining the path we must collectively tread as we usher in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. According to him, the analogy of shifting gears, is particularly instructive – as it recognises that “we must ramp up speed from where we are, and cannot go from 1 to 5 without a few shifts – but we must ramp up quickly, and decisively, with the urgency of a driver who recognises that he is already setting out late for an appointment; in this case, an appointment with a revolution that is not slowing down for latecomers.  We must choose the fastest not the most scenic route and navigate with great care and great speed.” Ighodalo: Celebrating a boardroom guru at 60 NESG summit to promote economic growth Buhari recommends `Made in Nigeria Solutions’ to nation’s challenges