The suspected leader of a secret cult group, Eiye, Paul Sunday, has told the police that he enjoyed seeing his rival cult gang members beg him to spare their lives. The 28-year-old one-eyed suspect, known as Blade in the underworld, had been on the police wanted list for over six years.  His reign of terror ended on September 21, 2019 when the police invaded his hide-out at Ikenne, Ogun State and arrested him. The police disclosed that Sunday had told a team of police interrogators from the Homicide unit of the Ogun State police command that killing his victims always gave him a feeling of superiority and invincibility. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The police said that the suspect admitted killing about 15 persons in the last six years of his reign as the leader of Eiye in Ikenne. A police source who claimed to be part of those who interrogated Sunday revealed that the suspect told his interrogators that his quest to kill stemmed from the brutal attack he sustained many years ago. The source said Sunday claimed to have lost one of his eyes during the attack. “He said that he has killed nothing less than 15 persons in the six years of his reign as the leader of Eiye in the Ikenne and Remo areas in Ogun State. “He said it was his wish to kill as many people as possible because members of Aiye were the ones who attacked and he lost an eye. When he came out of the hospital, he vowed to avenge on members of Aiye. He rose to become the leader of Eiye in the area because of his viciousness,” the police source said. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, had stated last week when Sunday was paraded that the cult leader had been a terror in the state. Oyeyemi said Sunday had been arrested and charged to court on three different occasions and once came out of prison for a murder-related case. The police spokesman said the suspect confessed to the killing of one Kabiru, described as the leader of a rival cult group. Oyeyemi added that Sunday’s arrest elicited wild jubilation in Ikenne and its environs as a result of the havoc he had caused in those areas over a long period of time. Police arrest 28-year-old 'serial killer' in Ogun I inflicted pains on my victim before I killed him – 20-year-old cultist Police nab three suspected cultists over multiple killings in Ogun