In line with its policy to support youth empowerment, education and excellence among Nigerian youngsters, EgyptAir has rewarded the commitment and hard work of Miss Deborah Olatunji, a student of Holy Saviour College, Isolo, with a free ticket to Dubai for winning the 10th edition of the National Travel Essay Competition (NTEC 2019). The airline also presented a second free ticket to the parent or guardian of the winner in order to allow her travel to Dubai together with any family member of her choice. The District Manager of EgyptAir in Nigeria, Mr. Muharram Abdelrahman, presented the tickets to Miss Olatunji in the company of her aunt, Dr. Ayodeji Adewakun, in his office. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY Mr. Abdelrahman said, “EgyptAir is an airline that believes strongly in securing the future of the younger generation because we believe they are the leaders of tomorrow. With this in mind, we have supported the NTEC since it started 10 years ago in 2009, and we are committed to continue to strengthen our relationship and support for Travel and Business News, organisers of the competition, as we join hands with them to raise future aviation professionals.” In a related development, EgyptAir recently took its humanitarian campaign effort to the streets by supporting the Rotary Club of Lagos District 9110 with one business class and two economy class tickets to support the club in its drive to better understand and create greater awareness about the treatment of children with Alzheimer’s disease. Similarly, EgyptAir extended its arm of fellowship to the less privileged by joining forces with Landmark Group to support the Music Dance Hall Festival held recently in Lagos with proceeds from the show donated to support various humanitarian initiatives aimed at easing the burden of the less privileged. Female banker to run marathon for Nigeria EgyptAir appoints new GM for Nigeria Egypt Air slashes business class fare by 50 per cent