The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with a global research and advisory firm, Oxford Business Group (OBG) to publish, The Report: Nigeria 2020. LCCI will help to produce The Report: Nigeria 2020 and other contents. The new report by OBG will shine a spotlight on the sectors of Nigeria’s economy that are ripe for investment as the country steps up its bid to reduce its reliance on oil revenues. The Report: Nigeria 2020 will also highlight the key role that an infrastructure drive planned for the agricultural, manufacturing and service industries is expected to play in attracting new investors and boosting inflows while it will also examine the country’s efforts to develop the green energy segment, which is being primed to play a pivotal part in boosting power provision. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY LCCI Director General, Muda Yusuf said, “I look forward to working with its team on their exciting new project and sharing the results with the global investment community.” The Report: Nigeria 2020, he said will mark the culmination of more than 10months of field research by a team of analysts from Oxford Business Group. The OBG’s Country Director, Christophe Bonami agreed that these were exciting times for Nigeria, as the country looks to bridge infrastructure gaps, encourage innovation and galvanise growth outside of the oil sector.   LCCI signs MoU with Oxford Business Group on ‘Nigeria 2020’ Power sector poses as new investment hub – Report MAN, LCCI excited as economy exits recession Dear Readers, Kindly take one minute (1) of your time to fill out this short question. This questionnaire is designed to sample readers' opinions regarding what the feel about Daily Trust newspaper advertisement; it is not intended to used for any purpose other than to improve the quality of our newspapers. Any information provided will therefore be treated as confidential.