Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted a woman, Mrs. Hannatu Tukura, alongside her 30 year -old son, Takpeyilo Tukura, near Tiza Junction in Kuje Area Council of the FCT. Our reporter learnt that the victim, who is a widow, was the wife of the late Mr. Shedrack Tukura, an administrative secretary with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Nasarawa State. A resident of the community, simply identified as Benjamin, said the incident happened yesterday around 8:12 pm when the woman, her son, a nursing mother and an elderly woman were travelling to Rubochi village in the area. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said Takpeyilo was driving and on approaching the junction, gunmen appeared from the bush and flagged the vehicle down at gunpoint. He said the gunmen opened the door and ordered the woman and her son out of the vehicle and whisked them away into the bush. “The gunmen wanted to also go with the elderly woman and the nursing mother who were inside the vehicle, but when they discovered that the elderly woman looked sick and was old, they spared her and one other that was carrying a newly born baby,” he said. He said the kidnappers were yet to establish contact with the families, even as he said the incident has been reported to the police at Rubochi divisional police headquarters in the area. The chairman of Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, confirmed the incident. Sabo, in a statement he issued yesterday, through his chief of staff, Malam Garba Abdullahi Rijau, condemned the latest kidnap. He said he was deeply touched by the kidnapping of innocent people, saying no sane person who believes in God would act in such manner. The chairman, therefore, sympathised with  the families of the kidnapped victims, while assuring people of the council that his government would not tolerate bandits blackmail. The spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, did not pick calls put across to him as at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Security And Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officer, CSP Attah Aku Samuel, who was shot by kidnappers two weeks ago at Kuje-Pegi area has died. It would be recalled that the deceased was returning from work to Pegi village when kidnappers opened fire on his vehicle and abducted 9 persons, including a 12-year -old boy who was returning from school in the area. A member of the deceased family, simply identified as Samuel, said the victim died in the early hours of yesterday at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital in Gwagwalada, where he was receiving treatment. “In fact, the doctors tried their best to see that he survived but God took him this morning around 9: 43 am,” he said. He said the deceased left behind two children. Again, Gunmen kidnap woman, son in Abuja community Gunmen kidnap Fulani woman, child at Kuje community Gunmen kidnap Fulani woman, child at Kuje community