The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has consented to the request by the authorities of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) to float a jetty at the school’s waterfront to complement transportation on the campus. Sanwo-Olu asked the school authorities to write a formal letter of request for immediate approval of the jetty, saying the government would help the university to build capacity in water transportation. The governor made the disclosure yesterday during his keynote speech at the International Week organised by the school. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He said, “I just had a discussion with the Vice Chancellor, who informed me that the school needs a jetty to complement transportation within the campus. I have asked the authorities to formally make a request for immediate approval. “We are ready to do all that is required to ease transportation challenges for our people. Just last week, we unveiled a collaboration with Uber with the launch of Uber Boats. We will be adding another one before the end of the year.” Saying his administration would make the state liveable for residents, the governor added he would not rest on his oars in solving the current challenges. Sanwo-Olu said the government would be embarking on improvement exercise around 60 identified junctions prone to high traffic in the state. He decried the attitude of some road users, whom he said deliberately obstruct free-flow of traffic, and urged members of the public to join the government in the advocacy aimed at restoring sanity on the road. Sanwo-Olu challenged students and scholars in the school to engage in research that would provide solution to urban challenges facing the state, adding that the government was willing to collaborate with the institution for the growth of the state. The UNILAG Vice-Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said the jetty would facilitate ease of movement for members of the university living in Ikorodu and other riverine areas. Ogundipe told the governor that the school had a committee of scholars engaging in applied research to proffer sustainable solutions to environmental challenges plaguing the state. Sanwo-Olu mobilizes Julius Berger, 7 others to fix damaged Lagos roads Sanwo-Olu appeals to Lagosians as Uber Boat service takes off Bad roads: Bear with us until rain stops, Sanwo-Olu tells Lagosians