The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers Committee have committed N22 billion to support the growth of the creative industry especially fashion, information technology, film and music. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele disclosed this at the 2019 edition of the Creative Nigeria Summit which held in Lagos yesterday. Emefiele said: “Our Creative Industry Funds Initiative (CIFI) will also enable the development of distribution outlets such as cinemas and music platforms, which will help improve the reach of the content developed by our young entrepreneurs.” OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The CBN, along with the Bankers Committee, in December 2018 set up the Creative Industries and Financing Initiative through which banks set aside, on an annual basis, five percent of their Profit After Tax (PAT). “Our plan is to develop a 40-acre Creative Industry Park around the National Theater including giving the theater itself tremendous face lift; thereby reopening the touring potential the National theater offered during the FESTAC 77 Arts Culture,” Emefiele revealed. Following the deployment of the pilot scheme in Lagos, CBN would replicate that in Kano, Port Harcourt or Enugu, he said adding that “Each park will be able to support skills acquisition for over 200,000 Nigerians.” These measures, which will be implemented in five years, will increase the contribution of the movie industry to the GDP, from one to three percent.  It will also   result in improved revenue generation of over $300 million from production and distribution of Nigerian movies   at   cinema locations at home and abroad. Also speaking, Mr Oluwatoyin Subair, chairman of Digital Play Limited, said there is now security for any kind of investment in the creative sector. “There are now established businesses along the whole value chain with proper banking and corporate governance running these businesses,” Subair said. Why we are creating National Micro Finance Bank - CBN CBN, Bankers Committee revs up support for creative, ICT sectors National Micro finance bank ready in January, 2019 - CBN