A magistrate court in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, has remanded a kingmaker in Edunabon, a town in Ife North-West Local Council Development Area of Osun State, Chief Olatidoye Oyedokun, in prison over the raging tussle over the throne in the town. Chief Oyedokun was arraigned in court yesterday along with 10 other persons on a 51-count charge. The other accused persons include a traditional chief, the Osolo of Edunabon, Chief Odebode Elijah Akande; Gbenga Olasunbo, Oladeji Yunusa, Abiodun Ogunwede, Ige Lawrence, Emmanuel Adisa, Babalola Bisi, Bello Olalekan, Ramoni Oyetoro and Adegbami Kehinde. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY The state counsel, Dele Akintayo and Bankole Awoyemi, told the court that the accused persons conducted themselves in a manner that caused a breach of the peace on December 19, 2018 at the palace of the Salu of Edunabon. The defendants were said to have disrupted the peace of the town during which the palace was burnt down and the traditional ruler, Oba Olatunde Oladepo, the Salu of Edunabon and many people in the town were harassed and injured. Counsel to Oba Oladepo, Chief Abdul-Fatai Abdul-Salaam, said the actions of the accused persons amounted to impunity, and that the victims of the attack were demanding justice. Abdul-Salaam said the Osun State Ministry of Justice had confirmed that the appointment of Oba Oladepo as Salu of Edunabon followed due process and was in line with the customs and traditions of Edunabon. The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the offences levelled against them and their counsel, Susan Olubunmi, sought bail for them. Magistrate Riskat Olayemi, however, declined the bail application and remanded the accused persons in prison. Olayemi adjourned the case till November 14, 2019.  Osun: Court remands kingmaker, 10 others in prison over Obaship tussle Osun community protests delay in installation of new Oba Erinmo: Confusion in Osun as two monarchs reign in one town