Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said that he has no plan to leave the All Progressives Congress (APC) for another political party on account of securing second term ticket. The governor has been feuding with his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the APC. All efforts by the party’s stakeholders including the presidency to reconcile them have failed. The governorship election in the state comes up next year. Obaseki said this yesterday when he received members of the Godwin Obaseki Support Group (GOSG), on a courtesy visit in his office. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “If a handful of individuals that start misbehaving and feel we will leave the party for them; they will be the ones to leave,” he said. He described the APC as a party for the youths and the next generation, saying that his administration is focused on infrastructural and institutional reforms that would stand the test of time. “This is a government of real change, which is concerned about youths and the future. This government has performed beyond people’s expectations and we are proud of the things we have done so far,” he said. The governor urged the group to collaborate with the state government in its campaign to kick out thuggery in the state. Earlier, the group’s Director-General Henry Idogun said it was formed during the 2016 governorship election in the state to bridge the information gap which existed on the governor’s agenda for the state. Meanwhile, members All the Progressives Congress (APC) in Ovia North East local government of Edo State have condemned the refusal of the two members- elect, Vincent Uwadiae and Dumez Ugiagbe, to present themselves for inauguration as members of the State House of Assembly. Addressing party members in an enlarged meeting of the party attended by members across the 13 wards of the local government, the party chairman in the area, Ambassador Etinosa Ighodaro, said the absence of the two representatives had created a vacuum in the development of the local government. He called on  the two members-elect to resume plenary on October 21, unfailingly, to avoid consequential actions by the party. APC will die in Edo if Obaseki is forced out — Idahosa Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart Keep your promises, APC chieftain advises Obaseki