The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has maintained his position that government officials in the state should not join issues with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. In a statement jointly signed by the Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Hon. Paul Ohonbamu and Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, the governor warned those intent on disrupting public peace that he is determined to maintain law and order and protect lives and property as the Chief Security Officer of the state. The statement reads: “The Edo State Government has again taken notice of extremely hostile, malicious and incorrect statements attributed to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by his media aides in various newspapers and media outfits. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY “This continuous spewing of invectives and purposely distorted accounts is aimed at creating a sense of tension and crisis in and around the state and the country when none actually exists.” It continued: “Governor Godwin Obaseki has therefore restated that on no account should any government official in Edo State join issues on the continuous unwarranted vitriolic comments on the person of the governor and the government by Oshiomhole’s media aides purportedly acting at his behest. “The position of government is to pursue the path of peace in dealing with ensuing issues for the good of all Edo people. “As Governor and leader, Governor Obaseki is in firm control of the APC in Edo State and there is no reason whatsoever to even moot the idea of leaving the party where he enjoys tremendous support and goodwill both at the state and the national levels. “The governor, however, warned those intent on disrupting public peace that he is determined in his resolve to continuously carry out his primary responsibility of maintaining order and protecting lives and property as the Chief Security Officer of the state.” Don’t join issues with Oshiomhole, Obaseki tells aides Oshiomhole, Obaseki trade words over alleged attacks in Edo I won’t give Obaseki details of my movement - Oshiomhole