The ban on imports and exports through land borders is paralysing the economies of border communities across the country, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has said. The chamber also said the Nigerian export to the West African sub-region had been practically brought to a halt as 90% of these exports are done by road. The Director General of LCCI, Muda Yusuf who disclosed this in Lagos while reacting to the ban on importation and exportation of goods through land borders however said the border closure has no doubt yielded some results which are recognised and appreciated. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY According to him, smuggling of petrol outside the country has reduced while smuggling of poultry products, sugar and others have also dropped drastically. “But we should be mindful of the cost of the closure as well.  The economies of border communities across the country have been completely paralyzed.  Not all trading activities in these communities are illegal. Residents of these communities are now in pain. Nigerian Export to the West African sub-region has been practically brought to a halt as 90% of these exports are done by road,” “All of these have profound implications for jobs and poverty. The very people we seek to protect are now victims of government policy.  We seem to underestimate the value of trade to the Nigerian economy.  The trade sector is about 15% of Nigeria GDP, which is an estimated N20trillion. We should deal with this problem in a fundamental way.  What has happened is a major indictment of government agencies manning our borders. There is a serious capacity problem. We also need to rethink our tariff policy. We need to fix our Ports.  We need to improve productivity in our economy,” he said, adding that cost of production and cost of transportation are prohibitive. He called on government to make better use of technology to man Nigeria borders. “It is sad that innocent citizens are being made to pay the price for policy and institutional failures,” he lamented. FG bans imports, exports through land borders How exercise Ex-Swift Reponse shut down commercial activities at Seme border Stakeholders disagree on vehicle importation ban