The Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has inaugurated a committee for monitoring the Nigeria Customs Service to ensure the achievement of its set goals and target. Chairman of the commission, Elias Mbam, stated this over the weekend during his visit to the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), in Abuja, a statement by the commission said. Engr Mbam, who pledged an effective synergy with the Customs Service urged other revenue generating agencies to key into blocking leakages which will be based on close monitoring of revenue generation. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He further thanked Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) for his efforts towards increased revenue generation for the federation which he said is necessitated by the reforms he has carried out within his tenure as the Comptroller General of the Service while pointing at the need for proper funding of the Service. In his response, the Comptroller General of Nigerian Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) urged the commission to work towards the realization of 7% of cost of collecting across board of revenues generated by NCS accrued to it for better funding of the Service, which, according to him, is facing more hazards in its revenue generation than other revenue generating agencies in the country. He also highlighted some of the problems faced by the Service to include age long border patrol. According to Hameed Ali, the non-compliance to the ECOWAS established protocol on any transit goods transfer which guarantees that any goods transfer to the ports is expected to be handed over to Nigeria ports authority has also been a major problem with most of these illicit goods coming in from these borders. The comptroller general went further to disclose that efforts geared towards correcting these anomalies have started with the recent border closure by the federal government alongside signing of Memorandum of understanding with neighboring countries like Niger.   Customs boss Ali finally resumes duty Customs boss redeploys 70 Comptrollers to boost revenue collection Customs: Tackle smuggling in 3 months, Ali charges 5 new DCGs, 8 ACGs