The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, has called for the development and adoption of home grown solutions to the security challenges facing the country. Abubakar, made the call in Sokoto on Monday, during a Town Hall Meeting on Security Matters organised by the Sultanate Council in collaboration with the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Sokoto State council. Abubakar, who is the President General of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, decried the rising security threats in the northern region. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He emphasized the need for a strong partnership between political leaders and traditional rulers towards finding lasting solutions to the challenges. The Sultan expressed disappointment over the alleged involvement of some traditional rulers in the activities of armed bandits in parts of Zamfara. He advocated prosecution of any traditional ruler involved in the supporting banditry and other criminal activities. Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto called for the strengthening of all law enforcement agencies and other institutions that promote peace in the country. Tambuwal lamented the shortage of manpower in some of the security agencies, stressing the need for a total review of the nation’s security architecture. He also called for more funding and proper intelligence gathering as well as collaboration with the traditional institution for better results. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that three key speakers; Gen. Ishola Williams (rtd), Emir of Zamfara, Alhaji Muhammad Attahiru-Ahmad and Prof. Tukur Baba of Federal University Birnin Kebbi presented papers at the meeting. The lecturers dwelled on the need for drastic approaches to security matters, overhauling of security structures, community involvement in tracking security breaches, increased professional training and viable economic empowerment at all strata of the society. (NAN) Oba of Benin in Sokoto, preaches unity Traditional rulers converge on Abuja to tackle security challenges Sultan urges security agencies to liaise with traditional rulers