The ruling All Progressives Congress yesterday said the judiciary, particularly the Supreme Court, will not succumb to the Peoples Democratic Party’s subterfuge. APC National Publicity Secretary Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu stated this yesterday in Abuja on the PDP and its presidential candidate’s, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, alleged fresh plot to malign Supreme Court justices ahead of presidential election appeal hearing. Issa-Onilu said APC needed to alert Nigerians on the “new and sinister” plot by the PDP and its presidential candidate to malign Supreme Court justices using foreign media organisations. He said the fresh plot by the opposition PDP after being rejected by Nigerians at the 2019 presidential election was to cause confusion and anarchy with a view to making the country “ungovernable”. “This is no longer opposition politics. It is an unpatriotic agenda by people who do not mean well for their country. It is important we continue to alert Nigerians to the devious plan of the PDP. “The judiciary is an important institution and its integrity cannot be subjected to political machinations. It is the responsibility of every truly patriotic Nigerian to rise against the PDP to ensure they do not succeed in undermining our corporate existence. “The judgement of the 2019 Presidential Election Petition Tribunal dismissed in its entirety the petition filed by the PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. We are confident that the Supreme Court will further and finally affirm President Muhammadu Buhari’s election victory,” he said. He said APC’s victory at the presidential polls and the election tribunal represented the collective desire as a people to remain focused on the progressive growth and development of the country’s economy, fight against corruption, and providing security. Tribunal’s ruling confirms our position that Atiku, PDP’s petition is frivolous – APC APC: Nigeria becoming a one-party state PDP intimidating Supreme Court Justices on purported exclusion of Rivers APC candidates – Issa-Onilu