The Depot Nigerian Army, Zaria, yesterday commissioned 4,832 soldiers of the 78th Regular Recruits Intake (RRI) into the Nigerian Army. Performing the commissioning as Reviewing Officer, the Chief of Defence of Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, urged the newly commissioned soldiers to uphold the virtues of selfless service and professionalism. He expressed satisfaction with the training received by the recruits, urging the Depot NA to continue to evolve innovative ways in improving the standard of the recruits’ training. OVER 5,000 NIGERIAN MEN HAVE  OVERCOME POOR BEDROOM PERFORMANCE SYNDROME DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY He added: “This realistic and result oriented training that is being imparted in young recruits here has been yielding positive results. This is evident by the robust fighting spirit displayed by our soldiers in various theatres of operations. The excellent display of drills and military skills exhibited on this parade ground today portend that you have acquired the basic training that is required of you to be good soldiers. “As you all know, Nigeria is currently facing numerous security challenges occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram terrorists, armed bandits, kidnappers and other criminal elements. I wish to state that these security challenges will soon come to an end as we will not rest on our oars until the country is safe for all of us. The introduction of Improvised Explosive Device awareness training and survival skills has enabled you with new capabilities that will enhance your operational efficiency.” Olonisakin advised the new soldiers to avoid doing anything that would tarnish the image of the Nigerian military and by extension, the nation in general, saying that the efforts of Depot NA Commandant, Major General Sani Muhammad, and his team of instructors in the training of the recruits were commendable. 4,832 soldiers to join Nigerian Army next week How Army exposed 6,000 recruits to Sambisa terrain 3878 Army recruits take oath of allegiance