The Federal Government said it will increase the number of beneficiaries of Tradermoni from 2.5 million to 5 million annually. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, said this when she visited the Command Centre of the programme located at the Bank of Industry (BoI) Building in Abuja on Tuesday. She said, “We are proud of the BOI for putting up this centre and I must commend you for that. I must also use this opportunity to reiterate the President’s vision of lifting 100 million people out of poverty. This is one of such programmes geared towards making sure that millions of Nigerians are lifted out of poverty. “So far we have been able to capture about 2.5 million people since the programme started and our ambition now is to scale it up to five million people annually. With what I have seen on ground I am sure we will be able to achieve that because we have the facilities. “We will scale up this programme from the 2.5 million beneficiaries to five million people yearly and I don’t think it is a giant ambition. With team work we can achieve this target.” The TraderMoni Programme being implemented by the Bank of Industry allows each beneficiary to get an interest free loan of between N10,000 to N15,000. The interest-free loan is part of the Social intervention programmes under President Muhammadu Buhari led administration. Statistics from the Command Centre showed that N19.6bn had been disbursed to about 1.95 million Nigerians under the programme. The Managing Director, BoI, Mr Olukayode Pitan said the bank would continue to provide all the needed assistance for the successful implementation of the programme. He said it was in recognition of the importance of the programme to poverty reduction that the bank decided to equip the command centre with modern facilities. How entrepreneurship can stem unemployment, poverty in Nigeria FG spends N300bn on social investment programme- Presidency Why Katsina shouldn’t  be rated second poorest   - Masari